ADP622
ARMYLEADERSHI
P

AUGUST201
2

DI
STRI
BUTI
ONRESTRI
CTI
ON:

Appr
ov
edf
orpubl
i
cr
el
eas
e;di
s
t
r
i
but
i
oni
sunl
i
mi
t
ed.

HEADQUARTERS,DEPARTMENTOFTHEARMY

This publication is available at Army Knowledge Online
(https://armypubs.us.army.mil/doctrine/index.html).

Foreword
Leadership is paramount to our profession. It is integral to our institutional success today
and tomorrow. As we transition to meet the challenges of an increasingly complex and
uncertain environment, our Army requires intelligent, competent, physically and mentally
tough leaders of character. Decentralized operations require leaders at all levels that
understand their environment, learn quickly, make sound decisions, and lead change.
Because there are no predetermined solutions to problems, Army leaders must adapt their
thinking, formations, and employment techniques to the specific situation they face. This
requires an adaptable and innovative mind, a willingness to accept prudent risk in
unfamiliar or rapidly changing situations, and an ability to adjust based on continuous
assessment.
General of the Army Omar Bradley once remarked: “Leadership in a democratic army
means firmness, not harshness; understanding, not weakness; generosity, not selfishness;
pride, not egotism.”
His words continue to resonate today in both peace and war. This requires personal
commitment, constant learning, self assessment, and passion for your Soldiers and units.
Being a leader is not about giving orders, it’s about earning respect, leading by example,
creating a positive climate, maximizing resources, inspiring others, and building teams to
promote excellence. Along the way, you will make honest mistakes. You will face difficult
decisions and dilemmas. This is all part of the process of learning the art of leadership. You
must internalize the Army’s values, demonstrate unimpeachable integrity and character,
and remain truthful in word and deed. Soldiers trust their leaders. Leaders must never break
that trust, as trust is the bedrock of our profession.
My leader expectations are straightforward:

Have a vision and lead change

Be your formation’s moral and ethical compass

Learn, think, adapt

Balance risk and opportunity to retain the initiative

Build agile, effective, high-performing teams

Empower subordinates and underwrite risk

Develop bold, adaptive, and broadened leaders

Communicate—up, down, and laterally; tell the whole story
ADP 6-22, Army Leadership, describes our foundational leadership principles. I challenge
each of you to study and build upon this doctrine to prepare yourselves, your peers, and
your Soldiers to meet the challenges you are sure to face.
Army Strong!

RAYMOND T. ODIERNO
GENERAL, UNITED STATES ARMY
CHIEF OF STAFF

This page intentionally left blank.

ADP 6-22

Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC, 1 August 2012

Army Doctrine Publication
No. 6-22

Army Leadership
Contents
Page
PREFACE ..................................................................................................... ii
Army Leader Defined ............................................................................. 1
Purpose of Leadership ........................................................................... 1
Components of Leadership .................................................................... 2
Applying Influence .................................................................................. 2
Leaders and Courage ............................................................................ 3
Situational Leadership ............................................................................ 4
Informal and Collective Leadership ........................................................ 4
Command and Leadership ..................................................................... 4
Leadership Requirements Model ........................................................... 5
Leader Attributes .................................................................................... 6
Leader Competencies ............................................................................ 7
How Leaders Develop ............................................................................ 9
Conclusion ............................................................................................. 9
GLOSSARY .................................................................................. Glossary-1
REFERENCES .......................................................................... References-1

Figures
Figure 1. Underlying logic of Army leadership ...................................................... iii
Figure 2. Army leadership requirements model .................................................... 5

DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION. Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
i

Preface
Army Doctrine Publication (ADP) 6-22, Army Leadership, establishes the Army leadership
principles that apply to officers, noncommissioned officers and enlisted Soldiers as well as
Army Civilians.
The principal audience for ADP 6-22 is all leaders, military and civilian. Commanders and
staffs of Army headquarters serving as joint task force or multinational headquarters should
also refer to applicable joint or multinational doctrine concerning the range of military
operations and joint or multinational forces. Trainers and educators throughout the Army
will also use this manual.
Commanders, staffs, and subordinates ensure their decisions and actions comply with
applicable United States, international, and, in some cases, host-nation laws and
regulations. Commanders at all levels ensure their Soldiers operate in accordance with the
law of war and the rules of engagement. (See Field Manual [FM] 27-10.)
ADP 6-22 uses joint terms where applicable. Selected joint and Army terms and definitions
appear in both the glossary and text. Terms for which ADP 6-22 is the proponent
publication have an asterisk in the glossary. Definitions for which ADP 6-22 is the
proponent publication are in boldfaced text. For other definitions in the text, the term is
italicized and the proponent manual number follows the definition. The use of the term
influence throughout this publication reflects the definition of common English usage “the
act or power of producing an effect without apparent exertion of force or direct exercise of
command,” as distinct from the usage outlined in FM 3-13. It is contrary to law for DOD to
undertake operations intended to influence a domestic audience; nothing in this publication
recommends activities in contravention of this law.
ADP 6-22 applies to the Active Army, Army National Guard/Army National Guard of the
United States, United States Army Reserve, and Army Civilian workforce unless otherwise
stated.
Readers should refer to Army Doctrine Reference Publication (ADRP) 6-22, Army
Leadership, for detailed explanations of the Army leadership principles.
The proponent of ADP 6-22 is the United States Army Combined Arms Center. The
preparing agency is the Center for Army Leadership, U.S. Army Combined Arms Center Leader Development and Education. Send comments and recommendations on DA Form
2028 (Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms) to Director, Center for
Army Leadership, ATTN: ATZL-LDL (ADP 6-22), 290 Stimson Avenue, Unit 4, Fort
Leavenworth, KS 66027-1352; by e-mail to usarmy.leavenworth.tradoc.mbx.622@mail.mil; or submit an electronic DA Form 2028.

ii

ADP 6-22

1 August 2012

Army Leadership

Figure 1. Underlying logic of Army leadership

1 August 2012

ADP 6-22

iii

This page intentionally left blank.

The Army exists to serve the American people, protect enduring
national interests, and fulfill the nation’s military responsibilities.
Fulfilling these purposes relies on leaders who embody valuesbased leadership, impeccable character, and professional
competence. Leaders require these enduring qualities regardless of
the mission or assignment, at all levels, across all cohorts.

ARMY LEADER DEFINED
1. Leadership, the lifeblood of an army, makes a difference every day in the United
States Army. Since the formation of the Continental Army until today with Soldiers
deployed around the globe, Army leaders have accepted the challenges before them.
The United States Army has always had great leaders who have risen above hardships
and have drawn on a range of leadership qualities to influence Soldiers, build units,
and accomplish the mission.
2. Leadership is characterized by a complex mix of organizational, situational, and
mission demands on a leader who applies personal qualities, abilities, and experiences
to exert influence on the organization, its people, the situation, and the unfolding
mission. Difficult and complex situations are the proving ground for leaders expected
to make consistent timely, effective and just decisions.
An Army leader is anyone who by virtue of assumed role or assigned
responsibility inspires and influences people to accomplish organizational
goals. Army leaders motivate people both inside and outside the chain of
command to pursue actions, focus thinking and shape decisions for the
greater good of the organization.

PURPOSE OF LEADERSHIP
3. The Army requires leadership to make choices and establish unifying direction for
the organization. Organizations have multiple sources to monitor and assess situations
and provide input for decisions; however, a central leader must oversee and ultimately
accept responsibility for the conduct of missions.
Leadership is the process of influencing people by providing purpose,
direction, and motivation to accomplish the mission and improve the
organization.
4. Leadership is a process of influence. Since first publishing leadership doctrine in
1948, the Army has consistently defined leadership as a process. This is significant
because a process can be learned, monitored and improved. While personality and
innate traits affect a process, the Army endorses the idea that good leadership does not
just happen by chance but is a developable skill. A leader influences other people to
accomplish a mission or fulfill a purpose. The means of influence include actions to
convey motivation. Accomplishing the current mission is not enough—the leader is
responsible for developing individuals and improving the organization for the nearand long-term.
1 August 2012

ADP 6-22

1

ADP 6-22

5. As an element of combat power, leadership unifies the other elements
(information, mission command, movement and maneuver, intelligence, fires,
sustainment, and protection). Leadership is a multiplier of effects; with it,
organizations are focused and synchronized, resources are used efficiently, people
become energized and motivated, and missions are more likely to achieve desired
outcomes. Leadership serves a motivational purpose: to energize others to achieve
challenging goals. An organization with effective leadership has a clear purpose,
common methods, and ordered processes; sustains itself; and accomplishes its
missions. Effective organizations rely on leaders to balance uncertainty, remain
flexible, and provide a climate where subordinates have the latitude to explore options.

COMPONENTS OF LEADERSHIP
6. Leadership involves at least two people or groups, one which leads and another
which follows. The influence process aims at getting results and developing the
organization. This accomplishes missions of high quality while sustaining and
improving the organization within available resources. Leaders must balance
successful mission accomplishment with how they treat and care for organizational
members. Taking care of people involves creating and sustaining a positive climate
through open communications, trust, cohesion, and teamwork.
7. Followers respond to the authority of a leader in general or in response to specific
guidance. Effective organizations depend on the competence of respectful leaders and
loyal followers. Given the hierarchical structure of the Army, every Army leader is
also a follower. Learning to be a good leader also needs to be associated with learning
to be a good follower—learning loyalty, subordination, respect for superiors, and even
when and how to lodge candid disagreement.

APPLYING INFLUENCE
8. Influence falls along a continuum from commitment, where followers willingly
act for a higher purpose, to compliance, where followers merely fulfill requests and act
in response to the leader’s positional power. The degree of commitment or compliance
affects initiative taken, motivation to accomplish missions, and the degree of accepted
responsibility. Commanders expect subordinate leaders and Soldiers to commit to
successful mission accomplishment. Trust, commitment, and competence enable
mission command and allow the freedom of action to be operationally agile and
adaptive.
9. Leaders can encounter resistance when attempting to influence others internal or
external to their unit. Leaders can mitigate resistance by anticipating what others
value, their reactions to influence, their shared understanding of common goals, and
their commitment to the general organization or the purpose of the mission and their
trust in the organization and the leader. After taking measure of underlying causes of
resistance, leaders can work to build or restore relationships, determine shared goals,
remove perceived threats or other actions, and clarify how the influence action relates
to their personal values.
2

ADP 6-22

1 August 2012

Army Leadership

10. A leader can influence others outside the chain of command and succeed in
gaining support for stated goals. Leaders can influence these outside groups, such as
the local populace, using indirect means of influence. Success in these situations relies
upon the relationships established between the Army leader and the outside parties.
Trust characterizes positive relationships. Army leaders build trust by being honest and
dependable. Without trust, there will be no relationship, no commitment, and no
effective communication among parties.
11. Occasionally, negative leadership occurs in an organization. Negative leadership
generally leaves people and organizations in a worse condition than when the leaderfollower relationship started. One form of negative leadership is toxic leadership.
Toxic leadership is a combination of self-centered attitudes, motivations, and
behaviors that have adverse effects on subordinates, the organization, and mission
performance. This leader lacks concern for others and the climate of the organization,
which leads to short- and long-term negative effects. The toxic leader operates with an
inflated sense of self-worth and from acute self-interest. Toxic leaders consistently use
dysfunctional behaviors to deceive, intimidate, coerce, or unfairly punish others to get
what they want for themselves. The negative leader completes short-term requirements
by operating at the bottom of the continuum of commitment, where followers respond
to the positional power of their leader to fulfill requests. This may achieve results in
the short term, but ignores the other leader competency categories of leads and
develops. Prolonged use of negative leadership to influence followers undermines the
followers’ will, initiative, and potential and destroys unit morale.
12. Encouragement and inspiration characterize leadership whereas coercive
techniques run counter to Army leadership principles. Subordinates respond well to
leadership that encourages commitment to achieve shared goals, thus improving the
leader’s ability to use indirect influence in situations where clear lines of authority do
not exist. Leadership seeks to influence others through the communication of ideas and
common causes. Positive, empowering influence comes by knowing how to lead,
relate to others, and free others to manage tasks.

LEADERS AND COURAGE
13. Army leaders accept the responsibility to develop and lead others to achieve
results. All members of the Army—Soldiers and Army Civilians—swear an oath to
support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign
and domestic. This oath subordinates the military leader to the laws of the nation and
its elected and appointed leaders, creating a distinct civil-military relationship.
Fulfilling that oath, leaders will face—and have to overcome—fear, danger, and
physical and moral adversity while caring for those they lead and protecting the
organization entrusted to them.
14. It takes personal courage to take the initiative to make something happen rather
than standing by or withdrawing and hoping events will turn out well. Leaders require
personal courage when confronting problems of discipline or disorderly conduct, when
innovation and adaptation are needed to try something that has never been done
before, when leading Soldiers in harm’s way, when being candid with a superior about
1 August 2012

ADP 6-22

3

ADP 6-22

a risky or improper course of action, when deferring to a more technically competent
subordinate, or when freeing units and personnel to solve problems. Leaders must have
the courage to make tough calls, to discipline or demand better when required.
Consistent and fair leaders will earn the respect of their followers.
15. A self-aware leader will learn from each decision and action; with guidance from
superiors, the leader will grow in confidence. Resilient and fit leaders have the
psychological and physical capacity to bounce back from life’s stressors to thrive in an
era of high operational tempo and persistent conflict.

SITUATIONAL LEADERSHIP
16. Leaders adjust their actions based on the situation. A situation influences what
purpose and direction are needed. Situations include the setting, the people and team,
the adversary, cultural and historical background, and the mission to be accomplished.
The effectiveness of influence methods also vary with the situation and the time
available for action. Education, training and experience are vital to develop the
knowledge necessary to lead.

INFORMAL AND COLLECTIVE LEADERSHIP
17. Leadership guidance does not have to come only from the highest-ranking leader.
Informal leadership that exists throughout organizations supports legitimate authority
and plays an important role in mission accomplishment and organizational
improvement. Informal leadership manifests itself through knowledge, experience or
technical expertise. Informal and collective leadership are important types of
leadership that do not adhere entirely to hierarchical levels of authority.
18. Collective leadership refers to the combined effects and synergies when leaders at
different levels synchronize their leadership actions to achieve a common purpose.
High performing collective leadership occurs when leadership processes are mutually
reinforcing and the result is greater than the sum of its parts—a sense of shared
responsibility for the unit exists.
19. Anyone can demonstrate leadership. The person with the highest rank or date of
rank in a situation technically has the greatest authority. The ranking leader present is
expected to exert influence as needed. The Army expects those with the greatest
expertise and knowledge of the situation to lead. Presence is not solely projected by
physical presence but through communications and situational awareness.

COMMAND AND LEADERSHIP
20. Command is the authority that a commander in the armed forces lawfully
exercises over subordinates by virtue of rank or assignment. Command includes the
authority and responsibility for effectively using available resources and for planning
the employment of, organizing, directing, coordinating, and controlling military forces
for the accomplishment of assigned missions. It also includes responsibility for health,
welfare, morale, and discipline of assigned personnel (see JP 1-02). Mission command
4

ADP 6-22

1 August 2012

Army Leadership

is the exercise of authority and direction by the commander using mission orders to
enable disciplined initiative within the commander’s intent to empower agile and
adaptive leaders in the conduct of unified land operations (see ADP 6-0).
21. Leaders can influence each other and subordinates regardless of rank, though
subordination based on rank occurs with both command and leadership. AR 600-20
specifically charges commanders to perform functions such as establishing a positive
climate, caring for the well-being of Soldiers, properly training their Soldiers and
developing subordinates’ competence. By extension, subordinate leaders have a role to
support each of these functions.

LEADERSHIP REQUIREMENTS MODEL
22. The Leadership Requirements Model conveys the expectations that the Army
wants leaders to meet. A common model of leadership shows how different types of
leaders work together and is useful for aligning leader development activities and
personnel management practices and systems. One set of requirements consists of
attributes of what leaders should be and know and the second is a set of competencies
that the Army requires leaders to do. The single model organizes the disparate
requirements and expectations of leaders at all levels of leadership.

Figure 2. Army leadership requirements model
23. Leadership attributes are characteristics internal to a leader. Character is the
essence of who a person is, what a person believes, how a person acts. The
internalization of Army Values is one type of character attribute. Empathy is
identifying and understanding what others think, feel and believe. Leaders of character
who embrace the Army leader attributes and competencies will be authentic, positive
1 August 2012

ADP 6-22

5

ADP 6-22

leaders. While character relates to the internal identity of the leader, presence
attributes relate how others see the leader and intellect relates to what abilities and
knowledge the leader possesses to think and interact with others.
24. Leadership competencies are groups of related actions that the Army expects
leaders to do—lead, develop and achieve. Core competencies are those groups of
actions universal to leaders, across cohorts and throughout organizations.

LEADER ATTRIBUTES
25. Attributes shape how an individual behaves and learns in their environment. The
leader attributes are character, presence and intellect. These attributes capture the
values and identity of the leader (character); the leader’s outward appearance,
demeanor, actions and words (presence); and the mental and social faculties the leader
applies in the act of leading (intellect). Attributes affect the actions that leaders
perform. Good character, solid presence and keen intellect enable the core leader
competencies to be performed with greater effect.

CHARACTER
26. Leadership is affected by a person’s character and identity. Integrity is a key mark
of a leader’s character. It means doing what is right, legally and morally. The
considerations required in leader choices are seldom obvious as wholly ethical or
unethical. The Soldier’s Rules, which codify the law of war, outline ethical and lawful
conduct in operations and are useful for everyday conduct (see AR 350-1). Leaders
who unwaveringly adhere to applicable laws, regulations, and unit standards build
credibility with their subordinates and enhance trust from the American people they
serve.
27. Leaders of integrity adhere to the values that are part of their personal identity and
set a standard for their followers to emulate. Identity is one’s self-concept, how one
defines him or herself. Leaders who are effective with followers identify with the role
and expectations of a leader; they willingly take responsibilities typical of a leader and
perform the actions of a leader. Leaders who are unsure of themselves may not have a
strong idea of their identity.

PRESENCE
28. The impression a leader makes on others contributes to success in getting people
to follow. This impression is the sum of a leader’s outward appearance, demeanor,
actions and words and the inward character and intellect of the leader. Presence entails
the projection of military and professional bearing, holistic fitness, confidence and
resilience. Strong presence is important as a touchstone for subordinates, especially
under duress. A leader who does not share the same risks could easily make a decision
that could prove unworkable given the psychological state of Soldiers and Civilians
affected by stress.

6

ADP 6-22

1 August 2012

Army Leadership

INTELLECT
29. The leader’s intellect affects how well a leader thinks about problems, creates
solutions, makes decisions and leads others. People differ in intellectual strengths and
ways of thinking. There is no one right way to think. Each leader needs to be selfaware of strengths and limitations and apply them accordingly. Being mentally agile
helps leaders address changes and adapt to the situation and the dynamics of
operations. Critical and innovative thought are abilities that enable the leader to be
adaptive. Sound judgment enables the best decision for the situation at hand. It is a key
attribute of the transformation of knowledge into understanding and quality execution.

LEADER COMPETENCIES
30. There are three categories of competencies. The Army leader serves to lead
others; to develop the environment, themselves, others and the profession as a whole;
and to achieve organizational goals. Competencies provide a clear and consistent way
of conveying expectations for Army leaders.
31. The core leader competencies apply across all levels of leader positions, providing
a good basis for evaluation and focused multisource assessment and feedback. A
spectrum of leaders and followers (superiors, subordinates, peers and mentors) can
observe and assess competencies demonstrated through leader behaviors.
32. Leader competencies can be developed. Leaders acquire competencies at the
direct leadership level. As the leader moves to organizational and strategic level
positions, the competencies provide the basis for leading through change. Leaders
continuously refine and extend the ability to perform these competencies proficiently
and learn to apply them to increasingly complex situations.

LEADS
33. The category of leads encompasses five competencies. Two focus on the
affiliation of the followers and the common practices for interacting with them. Leads
others involves influencing Soldiers and Army Civilians in the leader’s organization.
Extends influence beyond the chain of command involves influencing others when the
leader does not have designated authority or while the leader’s authority is not
recognized by others, such as with unified action partners. Builds trust is an important
competency to establish conditions of effective influence and for creating a positive
environment. Leader actions and words comprise the competencies of leads by
example and communicates. Actions can speak louder than words and excellent leaders
use this to serve as a role model to set the standard. Leaders communicate to convey
clear understanding of what needs to be done and why.
34. Leaders are expected to extend influence beyond the chain of command, which
usually has limited formal authority. This competency widens the responsibility and
sphere of influence for a leader. Such influence requires insightful—and possibly nonstandard—methods to influence others. Its limited authority stems from the audience’s
possible lack of the traditions, customs, and regulations of the Army and military
1 August 2012

ADP 6-22

7

ADP 6-22

forces. When extending influence, Army leaders have to assess who they need to
influence and determine how best to establish their authority and execute leadership
functions. Often they have little time to assess the situation beforehand and need to
adapt as the interaction evolves. Extending influence is a competency that includes
negotiation, consensus building and conflict resolution. Extending influence largely
depends on the trust established with unified action partners and often applies to
stability and defense support of civil authorities operations.

DEVELOPS
35. Leaders operate to improve or sustain high performance in their organization.
They do so by focusing on the four develops competencies. Create a positive
environment inspires an organization’s climate and culture. Prepares self encourages
improvement in leading and other areas of leader responsibility. Leaders develop
others to assume greater responsibility or achieve higher expertise. A leader stewards
the profession to maintain professional standards and effective capabilities for the
future.
36. Leaders are responsible for development. They must ensure that they themselves
are developing, that they are developing subordinates, and that they are sustaining a
positive climate and improving the organization. Leaders encourage development and
set conditions while performing missions. Development occurs by having subordinates
reflect on what happened during an event, by assessing whether units performed at or
well above standard and why, in addition to having a positive mindset of improvement
and learning. Every experience is developmental.
37. Leaders have choices to make about developing others. Leaders choose when and
how to coach, counsel and mentor others. Leaders often have the freedom to place
people in the best situation to maximize their talent. Then the leader provides
resources the subordinate needs to succeed, makes expectations clear, and provides
positive, meaningful feedback. While leaders need to develop others, they have to set a
positive climate in which individuals and the unit can improve and operate. As part of
their developmental responsibilities, leaders must prepare themselves and act to
promote long-term stewardship of the Army.

ACHIEVES
38. Gets results is the single achieves competency and relates to actions to accomplish
tasks and missions on time and to standard. Getting results is the goal of leadership but
leaders must remain mindful that leading people and creating positive conditions
enable them to operate as successful leaders. Getting results requires the right level of
delegation, empowerment and trust balanced against the mission. Adaptability to
conditions and adjustments based on adversarial actions are ever important elements of
success.

8

ADP 6-22

1 August 2012

Army Leadership

HOW LEADERS DEVELOP
39. Leadership—and increased proficiency in leadership—can be developed.
Fundamentally, leadership develops when the individual desires to improve and
invests effort, when his or her superior supports development, and when the
organizational climate values learning. Learning to be a leader requires knowledge of
leadership, experience using this knowledge and feedback. Formal systems such as
evaluation reports, academic evaluation reports, and 360o assessments offer
opportunities to learn—but the individual must embrace the opportunity and
internalize the information. The fastest learning occurs when there are challenging and
interesting opportunities to practice leadership with meaningful and honest feedback
and multiple practice opportunities. These elements contribute to self-learning,
developing others and setting a climate conducive to learning.
40. Leader development involves recruiting, accessing, developing, assigning,
promoting, broadening, and retaining the best leaders, while challenging them over
time with greater responsibility, authority and accountability. Army leaders assume
progressively broader responsibilities across direct, organizational and strategic levels
of leadership. Military leadership is unique because the armed forces grow their own
leaders from the lowest to highest levels. The Army entrusts leaders to develop
professionally and be ready to accept greater responsibility when called upon.

CONCLUSION
41. ADP 6-22, Army Leadership, establishes the fundamental principles by which
Army leaders accomplish their missions and care for their people. It describes the
enduring concepts of leadership through the core leader competencies and attributes
required of contemporary leaders of all cohorts and all organizations, regardless of
mission or setting. These principles reflect decades of experience and the best
scientific knowledge available. Leadership fundamentally remains a process of
influence; how and when influence is applied determines the eventual mission success
and the capabilities of Army organizations.

1 August 2012

ADP 6-22

9

This page intentionally left blank.

Glossary
The glossary lists acronyms and terms with definitions. Terms for
which ADP 6-22 is the proponent (authority) manual are marked
with an asterisk (*).

SECTION I – ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADP
ADRP

Army doctrine publication
Army doctrine reference publication

AR

Army regulation

DA

Department of the Army

DOD

Department of Defense

FM

field manual

JP

joint publication

TC

training circular

SECTION II – TERMS
*Army leader
Anyone who by virtue of assumed role or assigned responsibility inspires and
influences people to accomplish organizational goals. Army leaders motivate
people both inside and outside the chain of command to pursue actions, focus
thinking and shape decisions for the greater good of the organization.
command
The authority that a commander in the armed forces lawfully exercises over
subordinates by virtue of rank or assignment. Command includes the authority and
responsibility for effectively using available resources and for planning the
employment of, organizing, directing, coordinating, and controlling military
forces for the accomplishment of assigned missions. It also includes responsibility
for health, welfare, morale, and discipline of assigned personnel. (JP 1-02)
*leadership
The process of influencing people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation
to accomplish the mission and improve the organization.
mission command
The exercise of authority and direction by the commander using mission orders to
enable disciplined initiative within the commander’s intent to empower agile and
adaptive leaders in the conduct of unified land operations. (ADP 6-0)

1 August 2012

ADP 6-22

Glossary-1

This page intentionally left blank.

References
Field manuals are listed by new number followed by old number.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
These documents must be available to intended users of this publication.
JP 1-02. Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms.
8 November 2010.

RELATED PUBLICATIONS
These documents contain relevant supplemental information. Most Army
doctrinal publications are available online: <http://www.apd.army.mil/>.
ADP 6-0. Mission Command. 17 May 2012.
ADRP 6-0. Mission Command. 17 May 2012.
ADRP 6-22. Army Leadership. 1 August 2012.
AR 350-1. Army Training and Leader Development. 4 August 2011.
AR 600-20. Army Command Policy. 4 August 2011.
FM 3-13. Information Operations: Doctrine, Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures. 28 November 2003.
FM 27-10. The Law of Land Warfare. 18 July 1956.

REFERENCED FORMS
DA Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.

1 August 2012

ADP 6-22

References-1

This page intentionally left blank.

ADP 6-22
1 August 2012

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

RAYMOND T. ODIERNO
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:
JOYCE E. MORROW
Administrative Assistant to the
Secretary of the Army
1220101

DISTRIBUTION:
Active Army, Army National Guard, and United States Army Reserve: To be
distributed in accordance with the initial distribution number (IDN) 110180,
requirements for ADP 6-22.

PIN: 103006-000

