Army Regulation 600–100

Personnel—General

Army
Profession
and
Leadership
Policy

Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC
5 April 2017

UNCLASSIFIED

SUMMARY of CHANGE
AR 600–100
Army Profession and Leadership Policy
This major revision, dated 5 April 2017—
o

Changes the title from “Army Leadership” to Army Profession and Leadership Policy (cover).

o

Changes proponency from the Deputy Chief of Staff, G–1 to the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and
Reserve Affairs) (title page).

o

Adds policy concerning the Soldier Life Cycle (para 1–8e).

o

Adds policy for the Army Career Tracker (para 1–8f and app C.)

o

Adds the U.S. Training and Doctrine Command Civilian Acculturation Program as a best practice for Army Civilian
initial professional development (para 1–8g).

o

Adds a policy definition of “toxic” and “destructive” leadership (para 1–11).

o

Adds, updates, and clarifies responsibilities for the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
(para 2–1).

o

Clarifies The Inspector General duties (para 2–3).

o

Adds responsibilities for the Chief, Public Affairs (para 2–4).

o

Updates responsibilities for the Director, Army National Guard (para 2–5).

o

Adds, updates, and clarifies responsibilities for the Assistant G–1 for civilian personnel (para 2–6).

o

Changes the staff policy proponent for the Multi-Source Assessment and Feedback program to the Deputy Chief of
Staff, G–1 (para 2–6n).

o

Removes responsibilities for Commanding General, U.S. Army Accessions Command (previously para 2–9).

o

Clarifies The Judge Advocate General duties (para 2–10).

o

Clarifies The Chief of Chaplains duties (para 2–11).

o

Adds, updates, and clarifies responsibilities for the Commanding General, U.S. Army Forces Command (para 2–12).

o

Adds responsibilities for the Director, Institute for Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development (para 2–13).

o

Identifies Deputy Commanding General, Initial Military Training as the responsible entity for common core tasks
(para 2–13l).

o

Adds the Basic Strategic Art Program and the Joint Force Land Component Commander course (para 2–13m(13)).

o

Adds the Center for the Army Profession and Ethic (through the U.S. Training and Doctrine Command/Combined
Arms Center) as the lead for the Army Profession, Army Ethic, and Character Development (para 2–13p).

o

Adds responsibilities for Commandant, U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy (para 2–16).

o

Adds responsibilities for U.S. Army Warrant Officer Career College (para 2–17).

o

Incorporates Army Directive 2016–06 (app B).

o

Adds an Internal Control Evaluation (app D).

o

Adds policy pertaining to the Army Profession (throughout).

o

Updates the term “Department of the Army civilians” to “Army Civilians” (throughout).

Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC
5 April 2017

*Army Regulation 600–100
Effective 5 May 2017
Personnel—General

Army Profession and Leadership Policy

History.
vision.

This publication is a major re-

Summary. This regulation prescribes
Army Profession and leadership policy and
sets forth responsibilities for all aspects of
Army Profession and leadership doctrine,
training, and research.
Applicability. This regulation applies
to the Active Army, the Army National
Guard/Army National Guard of the United
States, the U.S. Army Reserve and the
Army Civilian Corps, unless otherwise

stated. During mobilization, the proponent,
Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), may modify
chapters and policies contained in this regulation.

Army internal control process. This
regulation contains internal control provisions in accordance with AR 11–2 and identifies key internal controls that must be
evaluated (see appendix D).

Proponent and exception authority.
The proponent of this regulation is the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower
and Reserve Affairs). The proponent has
the authority to approve exceptions or
waivers to this regulation that are consistent
with controlling law and regulations. The
proponent may delegate this approval authority, in writing, to a division chief within
the proponent agency or its direct reporting
unit or field operating agency, in the grade
of colonel or the civilian equivalent. Activities may request a waiver to this regulation
by providing justification that includes a
full analysis of the expected benefits and
must include formal review by the activity's
senior legal officer. All waiver requests will
be endorsed by the commander or senior
leader of the requesting activity and forwarded through their higher headquarters to
the policy proponent. Refer to AR 25–30
for specific guidance.

Supplementation. Supplementation
of this regulation and establishment of
agency, command, and installation forms
are prohibited without prior approval from
Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), 300 Army
Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310–0300.
Suggested
improvements. Users
are invited to send comments and suggested
improvements on DA Form 2028 (Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank
Forms) directly to the Assistant Secretary
of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), 300 Army Pentagon, Washington,
DC 20310–0300.
Distribution. This regulation is available in electronic media only and is intended
for command levels A, B, C, D, and E for
the Active Army, the Army National
Guard/Army National Guard of the United
States, and the U.S. Army Reserve.

Contents (Listed by paragraph and page number)
Chapter 1
General, page 1
Purpose • 1–1, page 1
References • 1–2, page 1
Explanation of Abbreviations and Terms • 1–3, page 1
Responsibilities • 1–4, page 1
The Army Profession and Leadership Overview • 1–5, page 1
The U.S. Army as a Military Profession and the Army Ethic • 1–6, page 2
Army Culture and Mission Command • 1–7, page 2
Army professional certification • 1–8, page 3
Army professional development • 1–9, page 4
Leader assessment and feedback • 1–10, page 6
Core leader competencies, “toxic” leadership, and destructive leadership styles • 1–11, page 7

*This publication supersedes AR 600-100, dated 8 March 2007.

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

UNCLASSIFIED

i

Contents—Continued

Chapter 2
Responsibilities, page 9
Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) • 2–1, page 9
Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Army • 2–2, page 9
The Inspector General • 2–3, page 9
Chief of Public Affairs • 2–4, page 10
Chief, National Guard Bureau • 2–5, page 10
Deputy Chief of Staff, G–1 • 2–6, page 10
Deputy Chief of Staff, G–3/5/7 • 2–7, page 11
Chief, Army Reserve • 2–8, page 11
The Surgeon General • 2–9, page 11
The Judge Advocate General • 2–10, page 12
Chief of Chaplains • 2–11, page 12
Commanding General, U.S. Army Forces Command • 2–12, page 12
Commanding General, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command • 2–13, page 13
Commandant, U.S. Army War College • 2–14, page 16
Superintendent, U. S. Military Academy • 2–15, page 16
Commandant, U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy • 2–16, page 17
Commandant, U.S. Army Warrant Officer Career College • 2–17, page 17
Commanders of Army commands, Army service component commands, and direct reporting units • 2–18, page 17
Appendixes
A. References, page 18
B. Multi-Source Assessment and Feedback, page 20
C. Army Career Tracker Individual Development Plan, page 25
D. Internal Control Evaluation, page 27
Figure List
Figure 1–1: Leadership Requirements Model (ADP 6–22), page 5
Glossary

ii

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

Chapter 1
General
1–1. Purpose
This regulation—
a. Establishes Army Profession and leadership policy by defining key terms and responsibilities associated with the
Army Profession and appropriate leadership practices and methods for Soldiers and Army Civilians. This includes assigning responsibilities and definitions among the Army Profession and leadership policy proponent, the Assistant Secretary
of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (ASA (M&RA)); the Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS), G–1; and the Army
leader development policy proponent, DCS, G–3/5/7, and Commanding General, U.S. Training and Doctrine Command
(CG, TRADOC), the primary Army Profession and leadership action agent.
b. Provides direction and guidance to the Center for the Army Profession and Ethic (CAPE) (through TRADOC/U.S.
Army Combined Arms Center (CAC)) for research, assessment, doctrine, training, and evaluation in all areas pertaining
to the Army Profession, the Army Ethic, and character development.
c. Provides direction and guidance to the Center for Army Leadership (CAL) (through TRADOC/CAC) for research,
doctrine development, leadership assessment, training, and evaluation in all areas pertaining to Army leadership.
1–2. References
See appendix A.
1–3. Explanation of Abbreviations and Terms
See the glossary.
1–4. Responsibilities
Responsibilities are listed in chapter 2.
1–5. The Army Profession and Leadership Overview
a. The mission of the United States Army is to fight and win the Nation’s wars through prompt and sustained land
combat, as part of the Joint force. We do this by organizing, equipping, and training Army Forces for prompt and sustained
combat incident to operations on land; integrating our capabilities with those of the other Armed Services; accomplishing
all missions assigned by the President, the Secretary of Defense, and combatant commanders; and remaining ready while
preparing for the future. In the conduct of its mission, professional and diverse leaders of character, competence, and
commitment are the Army’s asymmetric advantage. This regulation focuses on leaders at all levels and in all cohorts—
officers, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers (NCOs), Soldiers, and Army Civilians. These leaders are trusted
Army professionals who enable the Army to achieve the mission the right way.
b. The Army Profession is a unique vocation of experts certified in the ethical design, generation, support, and application of landpower, serving under civilian authority and entrusted to defend the Constitution and the rights and interests
of the American people. The Army Profession develops, inspires, and motivates Soldiers and Army Civilians to make right
decisions and to take right action according to the moral principles of the Army Ethic. The American people expect Army
professionals to provide exemplary leadership that reflects the Army Ethic and is consistent with our national values.
c. The Army defines leadership as the process of influencing people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation to
accomplish the mission and improve the organization. The Army defines a leader as anyone who by virtue of assumed role
or assigned responsibility inspires and influences people to accomplish organizational goals. Army leaders motivate people
both inside and outside the chain of command to pursue actions, exercise diverse thinking, and shape decisions for the
greater good of the organization.
d. The Army Profession contributes honorable service, military expertise, responsible stewardship, and courageous
esprit de corps. These essential characteristics reinforce the sacred bond of trust within the Total Army and with the American people.
e. The Army defines an Army professional as a Soldier or Army Civilian who meets the Army Profession’s certification
criteria in character, competence, and commitment. All Army professionals are leaders and have the duty of being stewards
of the profession, regardless of their rank or official position of authority. Army professionals live by and uphold the Army
Ethic in accomplishing the mission, doing their duty, and in all aspects of life. This applies to our day-to-day interactions,
at the office, in the field, on deployment, and at home, both in person and across social media. Army professionals, as
leaders, must maintain and set the example in all they do. Professional and leader development is a life-long continuous

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

1

process, consisting of education, training, experience, and self-development. Army professionals strive to continuously
improve their own knowledge, skills, and abilities, and as leaders they teach, coach, counsel, and mentor their subordinates.
Professional and leader competence includes gaining knowledge in four primary fields: human and leader development,
moral-ethical, tactical, and technical, and geo-cultural and political expertise. In addition, because Army units operate as
part of a Joint force, it is important for leaders to understand Joint, interagency, intergovernmental, and multinational
functions and doctrinal principles as applicable in their designated fields. Professionals keep abreast of and remain adept
in advances in their chosen career field, information technology, and maintain their knowledge of the standards of conduct,
policy, law, rules of engagement, and the Geneva Conventions.
f. Army leaders understand the strategic implications of their decisions and actions and contribute their best efforts to
accomplish the mission while taking care of the welfare of their subordinates. They understand that leader misconduct or
unethical practice must be prevented or stopped and immediately redressed. All Army leaders must motivate others to do
what is right – for its own sake – and understand that decisions and actions that violate the Army Ethic are not tolerated;
any such action can compromise the mission and have strategic implications contrary to the national interest.
1–6. The U.S. Army as a Military Profession and the Army Ethic
a. The Army Profession has two broad communities of practice—Soldiers, who are members of the Profession of Arms,
and Army Civilians, members of the Army Civilian Corps. The principles of leadership, professional development, character development, and leader development are equally applicable to Soldiers and Army Civilians. As members of the
profession progress from their initial stage of development within the culture of the Army, their character, competence,
and commitment are progressively evaluated and certified as Army professionals. From the ranks of Army professionals,
those deemed with the greatest potential for leadership are selected for promotion, professional military education (PME),
or Army Civilian education system and charged with greater responsibility.
b. The Army Ethic is our professional ethic, defined as the evolving set of laws, values, and beliefs, embedded within
the Army culture of trust that motivate and guide the conduct of trusted Army professionals who are bound together in
common moral purpose. The Army Ethic articulates our shared identity as trusted Army professionals and captures in one
place the moral principles by which Soldiers, Army Civilians, and all leaders are expected to live by and uphold.
1–7. Army Culture and Mission Command
a. Cultures are characterized by a shared set of beliefs, values, norms, and symbols that unite a group. The five essential
characteristics of the Army Profession – trust, military expertise, honorable service, stewardship, and esprit de corps – are
vital to the Army Culture. The Army Culture is unique, even within the U.S. Armed Forces; it is a system of shared
meaning held by Army professionals. The Army Ethic is the Heart of the Army. The U.S. Army culture of trust is both
informed by and sustains the Army Ethic. Preservation of the peace and winning the nation’s wars are inherent in our ethos
– this is Why We Serve. The ethical, effective, and efficient accomplishment of the mission is the core of our ethos – this
is How We Serve. Strategic leaders shape the Army’s culture while organizational and first-line leaders shape the climate
of units and organizations. Culture is a longer lasting and more complex set of shared expectations than climate. Army
Culture evolves slowly; it is deeply rooted in long-held beliefs passed from one generation of Soldiers to another and
communicated in Army policies, doctrine, customs, traditions, songs, and ethos.
b. In contrast to culture, organizational climate refers to the perception and attitudes of Soldiers and Army Civilians as
they interact within the culture with their peers, subordinates, and leaders. Observed policies and practices often drive
climate, reflecting the leader’s character. The greatest influence on an organization’s climate is the quality of its leadership.
The commander sets the example by establishing high standards and expectations for the organization and its members.
The best commanders place a high priority on personally developing their subordinate leaders, caring for the welfare of
Soldiers, Army Civilians, and their Families, while creating a rewarding climate of shared mutual trust and pride in team
contributions to mission accomplishment. A healthy Army culture and organizational climate will exhibit six overarching
characteristics:
(1) The organizational culture and unit climate fosters unity, cohesion, and trust in accordance with the Army Ethic.
(2) The culture promotes and rewards mental agility, the ability to break from established paradigms, recognize new
patterns or circumstances, and adopt new solutions to problems.
(3) The organization selects leaders and reward members who demonstrate the ability to sense and understand the
environment quickly to exploit fleeting opportunities or counter unexpected threats.
(4) The culture requires and rewards delegation of authority on the part of leaders, and the understanding and prompt,
thorough execution of leader’s intent (two levels up) by subordinates.
(5) The organizational culture selects and rewards leaders who provide clear priorities and focus their unit’s time and
organizational energy on their mission.

2

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

(6) The organizational culture is one of inclusion which demands and values diversity of knowledge and perspectives
that members of different groups bring and shapes how the mission is accomplished.
c. The Army seeks to execute mission command, both as a philosophy of command and as a warfighting function. As
defined by Army Doctrinal Publication, mission command is the exercise of authority and direction by the commander
using mission orders to enable disciplined initiative within the commander’s intent to empower agile and adaptive leaders
in the conduct of unified land operations. Trust, critical to mission command, is the bedrock of our profession. It is the
internal organizing principle of the Army, and is what enables the decentralized decisionmaking by subordinates to operate
within the commander’s intent. Leader actions consistent with the Army Ethic strengthen mutual trust and build cohesive
teams, enabling successful mission command. However, if leaders allow disconnects between word and deed, between
professed values and actual practices, they breed cynicism, compromise mutual trust, and degrade organizational esprit de
corps and individual morale.
d. Our national values and moral principles are reflected in the Constitution, the Declaration of Independence, statute,
the Uniform Code of Military Justice, treaties, status of forces agreements, the Law of Land Warfare, the standards of
conduct, and our creeds and mottos. By our Oath of Service we commit ourselves to these enduring American ideals and
adherence to the Army Ethic. In addition, Section 3583, Title 10, United States Code, states: Requirement of exemplary
conduct. All commanding officers and others in authority in the Army are required—
(1) To show in themselves a good example of virtue, honor, patriotism, and subordination;
(2) To be vigilant in inspecting the conduct of all persons who are placed under their command;
(3) To guard against and suppress all dissolute and immoral practices, and to correct, according to the laws and regulations of the Army, all persons who are guilty of them; and,
(4) To take all necessary and proper measures, under the laws, regulations, and customs of the Army, to promote and
safeguard the morale, the physical well-being, and the general welfare of the officers and enlisted persons under their
command or charge.
1–8. Army professional certification
a. Certification is verification and validation of an Army professional’s character, competence, and commitment to
fulfill responsibilities and perform assigned duties with discipline and to standard. Through progressive certification, the
Army strengthens trust by confirming the professional development of Soldiers and Army Civilians and the readiness of
organizations.
(1) Certification in the Army has two purposes. For the Army Profession, certification demonstrates to the American
people that the Army is qualified to perform its expert work. For Army professionals, certification also provides motivation
and a sense of accomplishment.
(2) The Army Profession certifies the character, competence, and commitment of its Soldiers and Army Civilians
throughout their service. Certification methods include: official promotion and evaluation systems; professional training
and education within Army schools, including branch, skill, and functional area qualifications; and centralized selections
and assignments for leadership and command positions.
(3) Each branch and career management proponent may develop and prescribe requirements for certification of expertise, (for example, the Expert Infantryman’s Badge, Expert Field Medical Badge, Sapper, Ranger), but must include the
assessment of character and commitment within the process.
b. Intrinsically, character is one’s true nature including identity, sense of purpose, values, virtues, morals, and conscience. Character, in an operational sense, is an Army professional’s dedication and adherence to the Army Ethic, including the Army Values, as consistently and faithfully demonstrated in decisions and actions.
c. Competence is an Army professional’s demonstrated ability to successfully perform duty with discipline and to
standard. Requisite competence varies based on level of responsibility (rank or grade) and the duties associated with specific force structure positions within military career management fields and Army Civilian career programs.
d. Commitment is an Army professional’s resolve to contribute honorable service to the Nation and accomplish the
mission despite adversity, obstacles, and challenges. Demonstrating commitment requires the resilience to cope with, recover from, and learn from setbacks.
e. The Soldier Life Cycle is part of the Soldier For Life concept and capitalizes on a Soldier’s training and professional
development timeline. The goals of the Soldier Life Cycle are to—
(1) Teach Soldiers to be Soldiers first.
(2) Retain quality Soldiers in the total force and support the all-volunteer force.
(3) Develop career readiness skills while introducing the Soldier to the many benefits the Army has to offer.
(4) Prepare leaders to mentor eligible Soldiers to achieve career readiness standards prior to transition from active duty.
f. The introduction of the Army Career Tracker (ACT) individual development plan (IDP) early in a Soldier’s career,
during the initial phase of the Soldier Life Cycle, enforces individual development. The benefit of having the first-line
AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

3

leaders assist with the creation of professional and post service goals within 30 days of arrival to their first permanent duty
station is crucial to support transition initiatives and ensures supervisors validate each Soldier Life Cycle touch point. The
Army’s Soldier Life Cycle consists of three phases: an initial phase, a Service phase, and a transition phase designed to
match a Soldier’s career progression whether serving on active duty, in the U.S. Army Reserve (USAR) or Army National
Guard (ARNG). The Soldier Life Cycle is the cornerstone service that helps the user to focus on their career path, the value
of their experience and to make informed career decisions should they remain in the Army or transition to civilian life.
g. The Army Civilian Acculturation Program serves as an on-boarding process for new Army Civilians to begin their
certification as Army professionals. Certification of individuals occurs at different stages during their service and varies
based upon the particular skill set. The Army is a profession of professions, some uniquely military and others with close
civilian counterparts. Army Civilians are selected and hired for specific positions, based upon their documented talents
and the potential they exhibit during the selection process. Most Army Civilians are initially employed on a year probationary basis. The probationary period allows the Army to introduce the newly hired Army Civilian into the Army’s cultural
expectations for ethical conduct and standards of performance, while simultaneously providing the Army with an opportunity to evaluate an individual’s conduct and performance on the job to determine if an appointment to the civil service
should become final (in accordance with Sections 801 and 802, Part 315, Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations). In parallel
with, but distinct from the probationary process, is the supervisor’s and senior rater’s assessment and recognition of the
Army Civilian as an Army professional, as evidenced by—
(1) Successful accomplishment of performance standards identified in DA Form 7223–1 (Base System Civilian Performance Counseling Checklist/Record);
(2) Development of an IDP in the ACT with the assistance of their supervisor;
(3) Completion of Civilian Education System (CES) requirements (for example, Foundation Course);
(4) Completion of supervisor development course, if required;
(5) Participation in career program specific training and education requirements, if applicable;
(6) Completion of Army required training; and,
(7) Successful completion of the Civilian Acculturation Program and all requirements set forth by their supervisor.
h. Individuals will continue to develop and achieve professional certification criteria through Army talent management
initiatives, human resources career management, and training programs. Some career fields have extensive legal and administrative standards for professional certification in competence (for example, Army Acquisition Corps members, lawyers, firefighters, nurses). Certification of Army professionals may also be beneficial in meeting professional credentialing
requirements of private organizations and non-Government professional associations for both promotion purposes and for
transitioning into civilian life at the conclusion of active service.
1–9. Army professional development
a. The Army defines professional development as the deliberate and continuous process of education, training, and
experience that prepares Soldiers and Army Civilians of character, competence, and commitment to perform present and
future duty in accordance with the Army Ethic. The process of professional development of Soldiers and Army Civilians
prepares them for increasing levels of responsibility. It is in the process of becoming a person of strong character that one
develops as a good leader. A trusted Army professional must be an honorable servant, Army expert, and steward of the
profession. The Army Leadership Requirements Model in ADP 6–22 establishes what leaders need to be, know, and do
(see figure 1–1) within the Army Profession. The attributes required of leaders are character, presence, and intellect, and
these qualities allow Army leaders to execute the leader competencies of leading others, developing themselves and others,
and achieving the Army mission. Attributes are desired internal characteristics of a leader - this is what the Army expects
leaders to be and know.

4

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

Figure 1–1 Leadership Requirements Model (ADP 6–22)

b. Character development is a shared responsibility of both the Army as a profession and the individual. Members of
the Army Profession must be committed to their own development. Importantly, all organizational leaders are responsible
for inspiring, motivating, enabling, and assessing the character and professional development of their subordinates.
c. The Army leader development model identifies important interactions for developing Army professionals. It requires
lifelong learning and identifies three developmental domains that shape critical learning experiences: operational, institutional, and self-development. The model portrays the development of trained and ready units led by competent and confident Army professionals, and depicts a continuous cycle of education, assessment, and feedback. For each domain, specific
measurable actions are required and each domain uses assessment and feedback from various sources to maximize mission
readiness and to develop Army professionals.
(1) The three domains of Army leader development are dynamic and interconnected.
(2) The individual gains knowledge and skills during institutional education and training and practices them during
operational assignments. Self-development enhances, sustains, and expands the knowledge, skills, and abilities gained
from assignments and institutional learning.
(a) Institutional training and education. The Army’s school system provides the education (how to think) and training
(how to do) needed to perform duty position requirements. The Army’s progressive, sequential, and parallel education
AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

5

systems will help ensure future Army professionals are armed with the knowledge base they will need to succeed in modular formations. Soldiers and Army Civilians attend institutional training and education courses following appropriate
career development models.
(b) Operational assignments. Operational assignments translate theory into practice by placing Army professionals in
positions to apply the knowledge and skills they acquired during institutional training and education. Repetitive performance of duty position requirements - coupled with self-awareness, assessment, and feedback - refines skills, broadens
knowledge, and shapes attitudes and subsequent behavior. The majority of professional development occurs while in operational assignments, learning from role models, and experience as a result of performing assigned duties.
(c) Self-development. Self-development is planned, goal-oriented learning that reinforces and expands the depth and
breadth of an individual's knowledge base, self-awareness, and situational awareness. Self-development initiatives focus
on maximizing leader strengths, reducing weaknesses, and achieving individual leader development goals. Self-development is a continuous process that takes place during institutional training and education, and during operational assignments; it should stretch and broaden the individual beyond the job or training. Civilian education is another aspect of selfdevelopment that prepares leaders for responsibilities and enhances their ability to make decisions in future conditions of
uncertainties.
d. There are three types of self-development: structured self-development (SSD)—required learning that continues
throughout your career and is closely linked to and synchronized with classroom and on-the-job learning; guided selfdevelopment—recommended but optional learning that will help keep you prepared for changing technical, functional,
and leadership responsibilities throughout your career, and personal self-development—self-initiated learning where you
define the objective, pace, and process.
(1) Structured Self-Development 1 (SSD–1) is a prerequisite to attend the Basic Leaders Course.
(2) Structured Self-Development 3 (SSD–3) is a prerequisite to attend the Senior Leader Course.
(3) Structured Self-Development 4 (SSD–4) is a prerequisite to attend the Sergeant Major Course.
(4) Structured Self-Development 5 (SSD–5) is a prerequisite for nominative assignments.
e. The Army training and development management process was developed and implemented as a means to recommend
improvements to training and leader development policy, strategy, and capabilities needed to provide trained and ready
units to combatant commanders. The management process starts with Councils of Colonels and culminates with providing
recommendations through the Army Profession Training and Development General Officer Steering Committee (for more
information, see DA Pam 350–58).
f. All leaders have a responsibility to develop those junior to them to the fullest extent possible. In addition to institutional training and education, Army professionals can facilitate development through the knowledge and feedback they
provide through counseling, coaching, and mentoring.
(1) Counseling. Counseling is a standardized process used to provide feedback to a subordinate. Counseling focuses
on the subordinate by producing a plan outlining actions the subordinate can take to achieve individual and organizational
goals. It is central to Army professional development and should be part of a comprehensive program for developing
subordinates. A consistent counseling program includes all subordinates, regardless of the level of each ones potential. AR
623–3 and AR 690–400 contain Army counseling requirements for Soldiers and Army Civilians.
(2) Coaching. In the military, coaching occurs when an Army professional guides another person’s development in
new or existing skills during the practice of those skills. Unlike mentoring or counseling where the mentor/counselor
generally has more experience than the supported person, coaching relies primarily on teaching and guiding to help bring
out and enhance current capabilities. A coach helps those being coached to understand and appreciate their current level
of performance and their potential, and instructs them on how to reach the next level of knowledge and skill.
(3) Mentoring. Mentoring is the voluntary developmental relationship that exists between a person of greater experience and a person of lesser experience characterized by mutual trust and respect. Mentoring extends beyond the scope of
chain of command relationship and occurs when a mentor provides the mentee advice and counsel. Effective mentoring
will positively affect personal and professional development. Assessment, feedback, and guidance are critical within the
mentoring relationship and must be valued by the mentee in order for growth and development to occur.
g. As future battlefields evolve into increasingly dynamic and fluid environments, systems that facilitate the acceleration of Army professional development are needed. The Army leader development model and tools, such as counseling,
coaching, and mentoring, are development multipliers that can enhance and influence maturity, shared identity, self-awareness, adaptability, and conceptual and team-building skills in all leaders.
1–10. Leader assessment and feedback
a. The multi-source assessment and feedback (MSAF) tool is an excellent example of a self-development tool available
to all individuals and units (see appendix B) which addresses leader core competencies from ADP 6–22. Individuals must

6

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

regularly conduct honest assessments of their strengths and weaknesses. The MSAF program consists of three sub-programs: The Commander 360 (CDR360), a rater initiated event for commanders, the Leader360, a self-initiated Leader
event (formerly MSAF360), and Unit360, a commander directed organizational event (described in following paragraphs
and appendix B). CAL is the lead agent for MSAF program support functions.
b. The Leader360 and Unit360 apply in operational, institutional, and self-development domains to all NCOs, officers
(brigadier general and below), and civilian leaders in the Army. Although these are the targeted groups for participation,
any Army personnel can and are encouraged to participate regardless of rank or duty position. Also, non-Army personnel
who possess a common access card can register to participate in all MSAF programs on the Web site at
https://msaf.army.mil/home/login.aspx. This assists Army personnel in joint assignments to receive feedback from their
non-Army superiors, peers, and subordinates. Self-development actions include conducting a self-assessment and seeking
feedback on a periodic basis through all of the MSAF programs.
c. All NCOs, officers (brigadier general and below) and civilian leaders in the Army are required to initiate and complete the Leader360 or Unit360 at least every 36 months from the end of their last assessment. For officers, the complete
date of their last Leader360 or Unit360 will be recorded on DA Form 67–10–1 (Company Grade Plate (01 - 03; WO1 CW2) Officer Evaluation Report); DA Form 67–10–2 (Field Grade Plate (04 - 05; CW3 - CW5) Officer Evaluation Report); DA Form 67–10–3 (Strategic Grade Plate (06) Officer Evaluation Report); or DA Form 67–10–4 (Strategic Grade
Plate General Officer Evaluation Report), hereafter referred to collectively as the “DA Form 67–10 series” (see appendix
B).
d. In place of the Leader360 or Unit360, centralized selection list (CSL) lieutenant colonel and colonel commanders
and their current raters are required to participate in and complete all requirements for the CDR360 program. Commanders
are required to complete two events during the course of their command tenure, which includes both a 360-degree assessment and a developmental discussion with their current rater. The CDR360 is executed as a rater’s program and as such
current raters are responsible for initiating and managing the CDR360 process for subordinate CSL O–5 and O–6 commanders and for the timely completion of all program components. Completion of the CDR360 event will replace the
MSAF notation on the commander’s DA Form 67–10 series. See appendix B for full details on requirements.
e. The Non-commissioned Officer Professional Development System (NCOPDS) will be examined periodically to determine how well NCOPDS is responding to the need for critical thinkers and life-long learners. The assessment will focus
on the basic leader course, advanced leader course, senior leader course, master leader course, and sergeants major course.
In addition to these programs, the assessments will look across the broad spectrum of the NCOPDS subsystems to determine how to enhance their integration and synchronization.
f. First-line leaders must regularly provide feedback on performance and assist individuals in establishing/refining a
leader development plan (LDP) to guide performance improvement to include updating a Soldier’s ACT record no later
than 30 days upon arrival at the first unit of assignment. A second critical component of success is ensuring uniform access
to current learning materials and programs. The self-development training domain must be a robust component of the
Professional Development Model (PDM) providing every Soldier and Army Civilian a clear understanding of what success
looks like. The LDP is located at https://msaf.army.mil and the PDM is located within the ACT system at https://actnow.army.mil.
1–11. Core leader competencies, “toxic” leadership, and destructive leadership styles
a. To produce an Army of trusted professionals in cohesive teams who adapt and win in a complex world, the Army
has identified core leader competencies that pertain to all levels of leadership, both military and civilian. Core leader
competencies are related leader behaviors that lead to successful performance, are common throughout the organization,
and are consistent with the organizational mission and the Army Ethic. Core leader competencies support the executive
core competencies that Army Civilians are expected to master as they advance in their careers.
b. All Army leaders are responsible for demonstrating consistently, including online, the following core leader competencies that are described in detail in ADRP 6–22:
(1) Leads others. Leaders motivate, inspire, and influence others to take the initiative, work toward a common purpose,
accomplish tasks, and achieve organizational objectives.
(2) Extends influence beyond the chain of command. Leaders must extend their influence beyond direct lines of authority and chains of command. This influence may extend to Joint, interagency, intergovernmental, multinational, and
other groups, and helps shape perceptions about the organization.
(3) Leads by example. Leaders are role models for others. They are viewed as the example and must maintain standards
and provide examples of effective behaviors. When Army leaders model the Army Values, they provide tangible evidence
of desired behaviors and reinforce verbal guidance by demonstrating commitment and action.

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

7

(4) Communicates. Leaders communicate by expressing ideas and actively listening to others. Effective leaders understand the nature and power of communication, practice effective communication techniques so they can better relate to
others, and translate goals into actions. Communication is essential to all other leadership competencies.
(5) Creates a positive environment/fosters de corps. Leaders are responsible for establishing and maintaining positive
expectations and attitudes, which produces the setting for positive attitudes and effective work behaviors.
(6) Prepares self. Leaders are prepared to execute their leadership responsibilities fully. They are aware of their limitations and strengths and seek to develop and improve their knowledge. Only through preparation for missions and other
challenges, awareness of self and situations, and the practice of lifelong learning and development can individuals fulfill
the responsibilities of leadership.
(7) Develops others. Leaders develop and cultivate the lifelong learning of subordinates and teams to facilitate the
achievement of organizational goals. Leaders prepare others to assume positions within the organization, ensuring a more
versatile and productive organization.
(8) Gets results. Leaders provide guidance and manage resources and the work environment, thereby ensuring consistent and ethical task accomplishment.
(9) Stewards the profession. Leaders steward the profession to maintain professional standards and effective capabilities.
(10) Builds trust. Leaders establish conditions of effective influence and create a positive environment.
c. Attributes are desired internal characteristics of a leader – what the Army expects leaders to be and know. The Army
has identified three categories of key leader attributes that leaders are responsible for demonstrating; described in more
detail in ADRP 6–22:
(1) Character. Comprised of a person’s moral and ethical qualities, a leader’s character helps determine what is right
and gives leaders motivation to do what is appropriate, regardless of the situation. Essential components of a leader’s
character are Army Values, empathy, Warrior Ethos and Service Ethos, and discipline.
(2) Presence. The impression a leader makes to others contributes to success in leadership and is the sum of their
outward appearance, demeanor, actions, and words. Essential components of a leader’s presence are military and professional bearing, fitness, confidence, and resilience.
(3) Intellect. Leader’s intellect draws upon the mental tendencies and resources that shape conceptual abilities applied
to one’s duties and responsibilities. Essential components of a leader’s character are mental agility, sound judgment, innovation, interpersonal tact, and expertise.
d. Army professionals are required to uphold the Army Ethic and model the core leader competencies described above.
They must remain vigilant to guard against counterproductive leadership behaviors from themselves as well as in the units
with which they serve. Counterproductive leadership can take different forms, from incompetence to abusiveness, all of
which have detrimental impacts on individuals, the unit, and the accomplishment of the mission. Counterproductive leadership behaviors can span a range of behaviors to include bullying, distorting information, refusing to listen to subordinates,
abusing authority, retaliating, blaming others, poor self-control (loses temper), withholding encouragement, dishonesty,
unfairness, unjustness, showing little or no respect, talking down to others, behaving erratically, and taking credit for
others’ work. One such type of counterproductive leadership is toxic leadership, which is defined as a combination of selfcentered attitudes, motivations, and behaviors that have adverse effects on subordinates, the organization, and mission
performance. To be classified as toxic, the counterproductive behaviors must be recurrent and have a deleterious impact
on the organization’s performance or the welfare of subordinates. An exacerbating factor may be if the behaviors demonstrate selfish reasons such as elevating one’s own status, grabbing power, or otherwise obtaining personal gain. Counterproductive leadership behaviors prevent the establishment of a positive organizational climate, preclude other leaders from
fulfilling their requirements, and may prevent the unit from achieving its mission. They will lead to investigations and,
potentially, removal from position or other punitive actions. Army leaders are required to utilize self-awareness programs
(MSAF, CDR360, and others) to ensure they receive feedback indicating whether they exhibit appropriate behaviors for
an Army leader. Army leaders are required to provide performance and professional growth counseling to subordinate
leaders to prevent or remedy counterproductive leadership.
e. Destructive leadership styles can compromise organizational effectiveness and discourage subordinates from continuing their Army service. In a variety of ways, they undermine mutual trust and impede mission accomplishment. In senior
leaders, destructive styles are particularly damaging. These types of leaders must be developed to change their destructive
leadership style if possible or, if not able to change, be removed from the Army profession. Five destructive leadership
styles are:
(1) Incompetent managers. They possess inadequate cognitive or emotional fitness or have inadequate prior experience
to function at their level. They cannot move from the tactical to the strategic level when so required. They cannot make
sound decisions on time.

8

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

(2) Affable non-participant. These leaders are interpersonally skilled, and intellectually sound, but incapable of taking
charge, making decisions, providing timely guidance, and holding subordinates accountable. They provide minimal guidance, avoid decisions, are fond of committees, meetings, visitors, and often lack passion or creativity.
(3) Insensitive driven achiever. These leaders are usually bright and energetic and consumed by need for unit accomplishment and its attendant recognition. They often provide impressive short term results, but create a frenzied, micromanaged climate. They are frequently inattentive to the morale of their organization.
(4) Toxic self-centered abuser. These leaders are also usually bright and energetic, as well as goal-oriented and bossfocused. Capable of producing spectacular short term results, but are arrogant, abusive, intemperate, distrusting, and irascible. They are typically distrusting micro-managers never burdened by introspection.
(5) Criminal. These individuals may be energetic, bright, and sometimes charismatic. However, they cheat, lie, steal,
defraud, and assault.

Chapter 2
Responsibilities
Army professionals are responsible for consistently demonstrating the Army competencies and attributes as stated in paragraph 1–10.
2–1. Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
The ASA (M&RA) will—
a. Set the strategic direction and provide overall supervision for Army Profession and leadership policy.
b. Oversee and review all policies and programs pertaining to the human dimension, the Army Profession, and leadership.
c. Provide policy, programming, and oversight for unit and individual readiness and training to include the Army Profession and leadership.
d. Participate in human dimension, Army Profession, leadership research, and leader development conferences, to include the Council of Colonels relative to leadership and the Training General Officer Steering Committee, as appropriate,
to include oversight of AR 600–100.
2–2. Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Army
The Chief of Military History (CMH), on behalf of the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Army (AASA),
will—
a. Produce historical publications on topics relating to the Army Profession and leadership.
b. Conduct historical research, prepare bibliographies, and develop and present narratives and other accounts of the
Army Profession and leadership topics.
c. Develop and assist Army museums in developing historical exhibits on the Army Profession and leadership topics.
2–3. The Inspector General
The Inspector General (TIG) will—
a. Extend the eyes, ears, voice, and conscience of the Secretary of the Army and the Chief of Staff, Army.
b. Assess or investigate alleged violations of the Army Ethic.
c. Assist commanders in teaching and training leaders on the moral principles of the Army Ethic.
d. Provide a continuing assessment of the command, operational, managerial, logistical, and administrative effectiveness of the Army.
e. Integrate Army Profession and leadership doctrine into IG training and certification at the Army Inspector General
School. Ensure IGs understand their role in assessing, investigating, teaching, and training, and providing feedback on the
Army Ethic.
f. Integrate Army Profession and leadership policy and doctrine into civilian IG career development programs. Train
civilian IGs to the same standards as military IGs as part of the Army Civilian IG career development program.
g. Participate in Army Profession and leadership research seminars, symposia, and conferences to monitor emerging
doctrine and policies.
h. Maintain liaison with the Mission Command Center of Excellence (MCCoE) to monitor emerging Army Profession
and leadership policy, doctrine, and programs; provide feedback, identify systemic issues and trends, and make recommendations for solutions or improvement; provide trends on violations for evaluation.

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

9

2–4. Chief of Public Affairs
The CPA will—
a. Inform the Army and the American public about the Army Profession and Army leadership programs, initiatives,
policies, and how the Army Profession is developing its leaders.
b. Integrate into Army communications strategy the information regarding the Army Profession, the Army Ethic, character, and leadership of Soldiers and Army Civilians to reinforce trust with the American people.
2–5. Chief, National Guard Bureau
The CNGB will, directly or by delegation to the Director, Army National Guard (DARNG) —
a. Develop and promulgate ARNG policies consistent with DA policies for the Army Profession, Army Ethic, and
leadership training and education for the ARNG and Army National Guard of the United States Soldiers, in conjunction
with the DCS, G–1; DCS, G–3/5/7; TRADOC; U.S. Army Forces Command (FORSCOM); and Office of the Chief, Army
Reserve.
b. Ensure that Soldier training and education on the Army Profession and leadership in the Officer Education System,
Warrant Officer Education System, Noncommissioned Officer Education System, and other training programs in
TRADOC-accredited professional military education (PME) are in accordance with DA policy.
c. Support participation of leaders and units in the MSAF programs, Leader360, and Unit360. Ensure lieutenant colonel
and colonel level commanders participate in two CDR360 events during their command tenure, and determine the appropriate windows for the events for ARNG component commanders (see appendix B).
2–6. Deputy Chief of Staff, G–1
The leadership mission of the DCS, G–1 is to enhance the readiness of the Army by embedding the human dimension into
all Army Profession and leadership policy (in coordination with the DCS, G–3/5/7 for leader development), programs, and
initiatives to enable the Army to execute its mission. In order to accomplish this mission, the DCS, G–1 will—
a. Exercise general staff supervision and responsibility for developing and promoting Army Profession and leadership
policies (in consultation and coordination with the ASA (M&RA)).
b. Serve as the Army staff (ARSTAF) policy proponent for both the Army Profession and military and civilian leadership, to include oversight of AR 600–89.
c. Serve as ARSTAF proponent for the Army Civilian Corps Creed.
d. Select points of contact to coordinate with and advise the DCS, G–3/5/7; TRADOC; and other organizations, as
appropriate, regarding Army Profession and leadership issues.
e. Participate in or support appropriate leadership and leader development conferences.
f. Coordinate and prioritize Army Profession and leadership research with special emphasis on the activities of the U.S.
Army Research Institute (ARI) for the Behavioral and Social Sciences. Approve profession and leadership research conferences that ARI organizes and conducts with the goal of coordinating research of participating agencies and organizations
and reviewing findings.
g. Evaluate profession and leadership policies and programs as they affect units and organizations in the field. Approve,
schedule, and conduct leadership conferences, when appropriate, to integrate and synchronize leadership and leader development policies, issues, and programs (working with the DCS, G–3/5/7).
h. Coordinate with the DCS, G–3/5/7 to ensure that Army Profession, leadership, and personnel management policies
are synchronized with leader development policies.
i. Serve as point of contact for issues relating to civilian professional development leadership.
j. Serve as a permanent member of the Army Profession and Leader Development Forum and the Training General
Officer Steering Committee.
k. Serve as Headquarters, Department of the Army (HQDA) proponent for Active Army, Reserve, and civilian mentorship policies, programs, and initiatives.
l. Serve as HQDA proponent for Army Values.
m. Synchronize programmatic requirements through the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution process
(DCS, G–8, Program Analysis and Evaluation Directorate; Army Budget Office; and DCS, G–3/5/7).
n. Serve as proponent for the MSAF program, to include Leader360, Unit360, and CDR360.
o. Ensure the Assistant G–1 for Civilian Personnel will—
(1) Develop, coordinate, and implement programs and policies directly associated with the development of civilian
personnel readiness.
(2) Coordinate with the DCS, G–3/5/7 and the CG, TRADOC to ensure Army Civilian leadership and civilian personnel
management policies are synchronized with Army Profession and leader development policies.

10

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

(3) Advise the DCS, G–1 on and assist the ASA (M&RA) with the impact of civilian personnel management policies
on Army Profession and leadership policy, and the DCS, G–3/5/7 on leader development policies.
(4) Advise the DCS, G–1 on and assist the ASA (M&RA) with policy issues relating to civilian leadership and mentoring.
(5) Participate in Army Profession, leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences, as appropriate.
p. Ensure the CG, U.S. Army Human Resources Command (HRC) will—
(1) Ensure professional development programs for Army personnel, including schooling and assignment procedures,
are consistent with Army Profession, leadership, leader development, and management policies.
(2) Advise and assist the leader development management process on leader development issues and policies, as required. Specifically, advise the DCS G–1 on issues and policies that pertain to Army manning priorities and assignments
in order to provide the best opportunities for leader development.
(3) Advise the DCS, G–1 of the impact of implementation of personnel management policies on the Army Profession,
leadership policy, and the DCS, G–3/5/7 on leader development policies.
(4) Provide resource support, as required, to ensure continued core civilian leadership training and leader development
through institutional training.
(5) Participate in Army leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences, as appropriate.
(6) Provide results or an executive summary of all Army Profession, leader, leadership, and leader development studies
to MCCoE.
(7) Coordinate with the DCS, G–1 to provide the CAL data on CSL lieutenant colonel and colonel commanders eligible
for the CDR360 program.
q. Ensure the Director, ARI will—
(1) Formulate and conduct a Soldier-oriented behavioral and social science multi-year research and development program, consistent with the DCS, G–1 direction, to enhance the Soldier Life Cycle/talent management (for example selection,
assignment, training, leader development) and to improve human relations.
(2) Maintain coordination with Department of Defense, ARSTAF, Army commands (ACOMs), and other agencies that
have responsibilities related to the Army Profession, leadership, leader development, and talent management.
2–7. Deputy Chief of Staff, G–3/5/7
The DCS, G–3/5/7 is the ARSTAF proponent for training and leader development. The DCS, G–3/5/7 leader development
mission is to develop, coordinate, and program combined arms training and leader development strategies-based policy,
programs, and initiatives that will achieve Chief of Staff, Army (CSA) directed levels of individual, leader, and unit training readiness required for the Army to meet national military strategy needs. The DCS, G–3/5/7 will—
a. Exercise general staff responsibility for all policies and matters relating to individual and unit training.
b. Exercise responsibility for leader development policy for the Army in accordance with AR 350–1.
c. Coordinate leader development actions with appropriate ARSTAF agencies and major Army commanders.
d. Work closely with the DCS, G–1, and TRADOC to ensure DCS, G–1 leadership policy, doctrine, and programs and
DCS, G–3/5/7 leader development policy, doctrine, and programs are consistent and complementary.
e. Participate in Army Profession and leadership research, seminars, symposia, surveys, and conferences, as appropriate.
f. Manage and provide oversight on all current and future Army training and leader development recommended actions.
2–8. Chief, Army Reserve
The CAR will—
a. Prescribe training requirements for the USAR which integrate the Army Profession, the Army Ethic, leadership
training and education policy in accordance with this regulation.
b. Support participation of leaders and units in the MSAF programs, Leader360, and Unit360.
c. Ensure lieutenant colonel and colonel level commanders participate in two CDR360 events during their command
tenure, and determine the appropriate windows for the events for Army Reserve Component (RC) commanders (see appendix B).
2–9. The Surgeon General
TSG will—
a. Serve as the proponent for Army medical department professional development and career management.
b. Ensure that the CG, U.S. Army Medical Command (MEDCOM) will—

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

11

(1) Integrate Army Profession and leadership doctrine in all education and training programs of instruction at the U.S.
Army Medical Department Center and School.
(2) Develop and manage an Army profession and leadership assessment program at the U.S. Army Medical Department
Center and School.
c. Participate in Army Profession, leadership, and leadership research conferences, as appropriate.
d. Coordinate with ARI and the MCCoE on the Army Profession, leadership, and cohesion aspects of medical research,
particularly the prevention and treatment of combat stress and psychiatric casualties.
e. Provide results or an executive summary of all Army Profession, leader, leadership, and leader development studies
to MCCoE.
f. Provide research support to the DCS, G–1, upon request.
2–10. The Judge Advocate General
TJAG will—
a. Perform assigned responsibilities as a part of the Army’s Ethics Program, as the primary ethics advisor to the CSA.
b. Manage two critical elements of the Army’s Ethics Program; in compliance with all requirements in the Federal
ethics rules and DOD 5500.7–R, and provide support to field commands and ethics counselors.
c. Integrate Army Profession and leadership training in courses of instruction at The Judge Advocate General Legal
Center and School.
2–11. Chief of Chaplains
The CCH will—
a. Provide advice and assistance to Army leaders on the religious and spiritual connections associated with the moral
responsibilities of command, ethical decisionmaking, personal values, and personal relationships.
b. Lead and support chaplain-led unit moral leadership training in support of the Army Profession and the Army Ethic.
c. Address the religious, moral, social, and ethical dimensions of Soldier and civilian actions in war and during peace
through the Commander's Moral Leadership Training Program.
d. Integrate the Army Profession and leadership doctrine and training in programs of instruction at the U.S. Army
Chaplain Center and School.
e. Participate in Army Profession and leadership research conferences, as appropriate.
2–12. Commanding General, U.S. Army Forces Command
The CG, FORSCOM will—
a. Support participation of leaders and units in the MSAF programs, Leader360, and Unit360. Ensure lieutenant colonel
and colonel level commanders participate in two CDR360 events during their command tenure (see appendix B).
b. Exercise general staff responsibility for all Army Profession and leadership policies, training, and matters relating to
individual and unit training for FORSCOM units.
c. Serve as the office of collateral responsibility to TRADOC monitoring the development and implementation of developmental leadership assessment training products, materials, and tools for officer, warrant officer, NCO, and Army
Civilian leadership training programs.
d. Conduct and participate in leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences.
e. Monitor the integration of lessons learned into all leader development courses.
f. Provide guidance and support for leadership, leader development, and leadership research conferences.
g. Assist in the integration of approved Army Profession and leadership doctrine into Armywide programs of instruction.
h. Establish and maintain close coordination with Service schools, the research community, the civilian academic community, other Services, and services of other countries to monitor and evaluate research and studies in ethics and cohesion.
i. Develop programs in accordance with established Army standards that will enhance the communication skills (reading, writing, and listening) of leaders Armywide.
j. Be responsible for strategic professional and leader development of the Army's senior leaders; support strategic broadening.
k. Support Armywide profession and leadership efforts (for example, Army Campaign Plan, Army Leader Development
Strategy (ALDS), Human Dimension Strategy, Ready and Resilient Campaign, Annual America’s Army-Our Profession
Themes, Strategic Leaders Army Profession Symposia).
l. Participate in the Army Learning Coordination Council and establish and maintain close coordination with Service
schools, the research community, the civilian academic community, other Services, and services of other countries to
monitor and evaluate research and studies related to the Army Profession and leadership.
12

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

2–13. Commanding General, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command
The CG, TRADOC will—
a. Serve as the Army senior responsible official and principle lead for the training and leader development processes.
Develop training doctrine and execute training policies and procedures as directed by HQDA. Develop Army Profession
and leadership operational concepts, doctrine, training, and education programs in coordination with HQDA and based
upon Army leadership theory and policies. Integrate Army leadership and leader development doctrine in all training programs in Service schools and training centers for commissioned and warrant officers, NCOs, and Army Civilians at progressive and sequential phases of career development.
b. Serve as the proponent for ADP 6–22 and ADRP 6–22.
c. Manage all leadership and leader development education and training programs of instruction, to include development and implementation of leadership assessment policy, in TRADOC schools and training centers.
d. Monitor the development and implementation of developmental leadership assessment training products, materials,
and tools for officer, warrant officer, NCO, and Army Civilian leadership training programs.
e. Conduct and participate in leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences.
f. Monitor the integration of leader development requirements into the Cadre Training Course, home station, and institutional training master plans.
g. Monitor the integration of lessons learned into all leader development courses.
h. Monitor the development and maintenance of specific proponent career maps under the TRADOC area of responsibility.
i. Serve as the proponent to plan, program, budget, and supervise through the CAL at the Army Combined Arms Center,
by administering all MSAF programs (Leader360, Unit360, and CDR360) support functions.
j. Expand professional certification and credentialing use to maximize the development of Army professionals by
achieving accelerated ethical maturity and inculcation of Army Values, improved ethical decisionmaking and stewardship.
k. Seek ways to unify a holistic vision to maximize individual and team performance through identification, development, and optimal integration of human capabilities; invest significantly in the human dimension.
l. Ensure the Deputy Commanding General, Initial Military Training (IMT) will—
(1) Provide integrated command and control of the IMT for the Army's officer, warrant officer, and enlisted forces to
meet the Army's manpower and readiness requirements and standards.
(2) Provide oversight of Basic Officer Leaders Course A (BOLC A) tasks, pre-commissioning leadership instruction
for U.S. Military Academy (USMA), Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC), Officer Candidate School (OCS), and
Warrant Officer Candidate School (WOCS).
(3) Establish and provide IMT policy and execution guidance to TRADOC commanders and staff outside the IMT
chain of command. Embed the Army Profession, Army Ethic, and leadership in all facets of IMT.
(4) Direct pre-commissioning common core Soldier and officer training requirements in coordination with and executed
by the U.S. Army Reserve Command, ARNG, U.S. Army Cadet Command ROTC, deputy commandants, OCS, WOCS,
and USMA to ensure linkage and standards with BOLC.
(5) Conduct and participate in Army Profession and leadership research and conferences.
(6) Provide results or an executive summary of all Army Profession, leader, leadership, and leader development studies
to MCCoE.
(7) Provide Center for Initial Military Training as the lead for common core IMT; establish and maintain warrior tasks
and battle drills. Direct research and experimentation analysis to improve performance in IMT.
m. Ensure the CG, CAC and Commandant, U.S. Army Command and General Staff College (CGSC) will—
(1) Serve as the TRADOC lead for leader development, education, and doctrine, and as the proponent for officer and
civilian PME.
(2) Provide guidance and support for leadership, leader development, and leadership research conferences.
(3) Conduct instruction in leadership and ethics for the intermediate level education, Pre-Command Course (PCC),
Division Commander/Assistant Division Commander Course, and other courses as directed.
(4) Coordinate closely with Service schools, training centers, the U.S. Army War College (USAWC), Army Management Staff College, U.S. Army Warrant Officer Career College (USAWOCC), the Institute for Noncommissioned Officer
Professional Development (INCOPD), USAR schools, ARNG State military academies, regional training institutes, and
pre-commissioning schools (USMA, ROTC, OCS, and WOCS) to achieve an integrated, progressive, and sequential Army
Profession and leadership instruction program.
(5) Assist in the integration of approved leadership and leader development doctrine into Armywide programs of instruction.

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

13

(6) Establish and maintain close coordination with Service schools, the research community, the civilian academic
community, other Services, and services of other countries to monitor and evaluate research and studies in ethics and
cohesion.
(7) Develop and provide training support materials on the Army Profession, leadership, leadership assessment to all
Army service schools, TRADOC training centers, and other Army organizations.
(8) Develop and conduct leadership training for Army Civilians at the foundation, basic, intermediate, and advanced
levels, as directed by TRADOC.
(9) Monitor the civilian sector for appropriate leadership training services, in coordination with the DCS, G–1 and DCS,
G–3/5/7. Evaluate potential training packages and incorporate them into leadership curricula, as appropriate.
(10) Develop programs in accordance with established Army standards that will enhance the communication skills
(reading, writing, and listening) of leaders Armywide. This is done in coordination with the Office of the Chief of Public
Affairs; CG, TRADOC; and CG, HRC.
(11) Participate in leadership, leader development, and leadership research conferences.
(12) Conduct instruction in command, Army Profession, Army Ethic, leadership, and management for all USAWC
resident and nonresident students. Coordinate with the CAC/CGSC to ensure this instruction is integrated with and linked
progressively and sequentially to Army Profession and leadership instruction in TRADOC schools.
(13) Manage the Basic Strategic Art Program and the Joint Force Land Component Commander course.
(14) Be responsible for strategic professional and leader development of the Army's senior leaders.
(15) Establish and maintain liaison with the DCS, G–1; DCS, G–3/5/7; CAL; ARI; and other agencies, as needed, to
ensure the coordination of Army Profession, ethical decisionmaking, character development, and leadership research and
instructional activities at USAWC with TRADOC Army Profession, and leader development programs, Army Profession,
Army Ethic and leadership instruction in TRADOC schools, development of Army Profession and leadership doctrine,
and the overall Army Profession and moral-ethical leadership research program.
(16) Provide results or an executive summary of all Army Profession, leader, leadership, and leader development studies to MCCoE.
n. Ensure the CG, Combined Arms Support Command (CASCOM) on behalf of the CG, CAC will—
(1) Conduct Army Profession and leadership training.
(2) Conduct and participate in leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences.
(3) Provide results or an executive summary of all Army Profession and leadership studies to MCCoE.
o. Ensure the Director, CAL on behalf of the CG, CAC is the Army lead for leadership and leader development research,
analysis, assessment, and evaluation; leadership doctrine; coordination, development, and management of initiatives within
the LDP; and the integration and synchronization of PME to sustain excellence in growing Army leaders. The Director,
CAL will—
(1) Directly support CG, CAC in accomplishing all tasks required in paragraph 2–13l.
(2) Coordinate with the DCS, G–3/5/7 (DAMO–TR) and the DCS, G–1 (DAPE–MPC) to ensure that leadership and
leader development policies, programs, and initiatives are synchronized with current doctrine, concepts, and theories.
(3) Facilitate the coordination and integration of research, concepts, and doctrine development, training, and evaluation
in all areas of leadership, in coordination with the DCS, G–1 and the DCS, G–3/5/7.
(4) Serve as the Army lead for ADRP 6–22.
(5) Establish and maintain close coordination with Service schools, the research community, the civilian academic
community, other Services, and services of other countries to monitor and evaluate research and studies in leadership,
leader development, and leadership assessment.
(6) Review and evaluate leadership education and training curricula in TRADOC Service schools and training centers.
Provide assistance to Service schools not under TRADOC in the review and evaluation of leadership curricula. Provide
recommendations on requirements for Army leadership instructor education.
(7) Evaluate, design, and develop leader development programs and concepts. Conduct research, studies, and analysis
to identify and assess leadership and leader development trends, requirements, strategies, technologies, and techniques.
Develop, maintain, and promulgate leadership doctrine.
(8) Design, field, operate, and monitor leadership assessment programs and/or tools that contribute to Army leader
development in institutional training, operational assignments, and self-development. Maintain liaison and coordinate with
Army agencies that use assessment techniques, to include the INCOPD, U.S. Army Cadet Command, USMA, and
USAWC.
(9) Serve as the lead agent for the MSAF programs (Leader360, Unit360, and CDR360). Responsible for the development, validation, maintenance, administration, and execution of multi-source assessment programs for leader development;
does not bear responsibility for individual leader accountability or tracking of program compliance.
(10) Serve as the lead for the Army Mentorship Program and all related doctrinal development.
14

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

p. Ensure the Director, CAPE on behalf of the CG, CAC, serves as the Army lead for the Army Profession, Army Ethic,
and character development of Army professionals (Soldiers and Army Civilians) to reinforce trust within the profession
and with the American people. The Director, CAPE will—
(1) Directly support the CG, CAC, and the Director MCCoE in accomplishing all tasks required in paragraph 2–13l.
(2) Coordinate with CAL, CAC, the DCS, G–1 (DAPE–MPC), and DCS, G–3/5/7 (DAMO–TR) and to ensure that
Army Profession and leadership and Army Profession and leader development policies, programs, and initiatives are synchronized with current doctrine, concepts, and theories.
(3) Facilitate the coordination and integration of research, concepts, and doctrine development, training, and evaluation
in all areas of the Army Profession and leadership, in coordination with the DCS, G–1, ARI, the DCS, G–3/5/7, and CAL.
(4) Support Armywide profession and leadership efforts (for example, Army Campaign Plan, Army Leader Development Strategy, Human Dimension Strategy, Ready and Resilient Campaign, America’s Army-Our Profession Themes,
Strategic Leaders Army Profession Symposia).
(5) Serve as the Army lead for the Army Values and all related doctrinal development.
(6) Serve as the Army lead for ADRP 1.
(7) Establish and maintain a CAPE Web site that facilitates and promotes Army Profession research, information, education, and training materials to support institutional and operational unit AR 350–1 professional development and leadership training.
(8) Participate in the Army Learning Coordination Council and establish and maintain close coordination with Service
schools, the research community, the civilian academic community, other Services, and services of other countries to
monitor and evaluate research and studies related to the Army Profession and leadership, Army Profession and leader
development, and Army Profession and leadership assessment.
(9) Establish and maintain coordination and liaison with HQDA, Joint Staff, Office of the Secretary of Defense, and
other Services’ representatives for ethics and professionalism, and services of other countries in regards to the Army Profession and Army Ethic.
(10) Review and evaluate Army Profession and leadership education and training curricula in TRADOC Service
schools and training centers. Provide assistance to Service schools not under TRADOC in the review and evaluation of
Army Profession and leadership curricula. Provide recommendations on requirements for Army Profession and leadership
instructor education.
(11) Evaluate, design, and develop Army Profession and leader development strategies, initiatives, and concepts. Conduct research and analysis to identify and assess Army Profession and leadership and Army Profession and leader development trends, requirements, strategies, technologies, and techniques. Develop, maintain, and promulgate Army Profession and leadership doctrine.
(12) Design, field, and monitor Army Profession and leadership assessment programs and/or tools that contribute to
Army Profession and leader development in institutional training, operational assignments, and self-development. Maintain liaison and coordinate with Army agencies that use assessment techniques, to include the INCOPD, U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy (USASMA), USAWOCC, U.S. Army Cadet Command, OCS, USMA, CGSC, and USAWC.
q. Ensure the Director, INCOPD will—
(1) Provide direction and oversight of the NCOPDS; serve as force modernization proponent for NCOPDS. Develop
and coordinate doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, and facilities requirements
for NCOPDS; coordinate and approve related Army doctrinal qualifications and personnel policies.
(2) Serve as the principal advisor to the Army Leader Development Enterprise on NCO development.
(3) Ensure the NCOPDS meets the intent of the Army's Leader Development Strategy and Army Learning Strategy.
(4) Conduct assessments and needs analysis ensuring NCOPDS is relevant, vertically aligned, and meets the needs of
current and future NCOs.
(5) Integrate all directed NCO leader development requirements from HQDA, TRADOC, and CAC.
(6) Develop future strategies and initiatives for NCOPDS; develop strategic initiatives related to NCOPDS; develop
concepts, identify resource requirements, and mature initiatives.
(7) Serve as key integrator for policy, planning, and oversight of NCOPDS; synchronize and coordinate policy related
to NCO development; coordinate support for NCO leader development strategic actions designed to build foreign nation
partnerships.
(8) Assist the CAC in developing, reviewing, and recommending revisions to Army doctrine with regard to the role,
duties, and responsibilities of the NCO. Ensure that Human Dimension and Force 2025 and Beyond initiatives are reviewed
and operationalized within the NCOPDS where practical and feasible.
(9) Conduct strategic communications programs for NCOPDS; develop and communicate NCO leader development
themes and messages to the Army.
(10) Monitor the effectiveness of NCOPDS outputs; develop program standards and metrics.
AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

15

(11) Participate in Army Profession and leadership research, symposia, seminars, surveys, and conferences, as appropriate.
(12) Serve as the program manager for the ACT.
r. Ensure the Commandant, USAWOCC will—
(1) Serve as the lead agent in developing and educating current and future warrant officers.
(2) Integrate and implement Army Profession and leadership policy.
(3) Conduct instruction in Army Profession, command, leadership, and management for all USAWOCC resident students. Coordinate with CAC to ensure instructions is integrated with and linked progressively and sequentially to leadership instruction in TRADOC schools.
(4) Ensure warrant officer Army Profession and leadership program meets the intent of the Army's Leader Development
Strategy and Army Learning Concept.
(5) Adjudicate Warrant Officer Advanced Course (WOAC) common core training products developed by the proponent
for officer mid-grade learning continuum.
(6) Serve as the appointment authority for all warrant officers (except special forces, 180A) appointed to the rank of
warrant officer one upon successful completion of the WOCS.
(7) Serve as principal advisor regarding basic officer leadership course task development and PME common core development for warrant officers to CACs and other education institutions.
(8) Serve as the candidate appellate authority for USAWOCC conducted WOCS.
(9) Synchronize and execute simultaneous activities in support of resident and distance learning education to include:
initial-entry training and senior-level PME and sequential educational integration across all cohorts.
(10) Coordinate and maintain relationships with the CGSC, USAWC, and sister Service education institutions to
broaden educational opportunities for senior-level PME students.
(11) Assess WOCS training programs at State run ARNG regional training institutes to ensure compliance with established regulations and policies.
(12) Participate in Army Profession, leadership, and leadership research conferences, as appropriate.
(13) Provide results or an executive summary of all Army Profession, leader, leadership, and leader development studies to MCCoE.
2–14. Commandant, U.S. Army War College
The Commandant, USAWC will—
a. Conduct instruction in command, leadership, and management for all USAWC resident and nonresident students.
Coordinate with CAC/CGSC to ensure instruction is integrated with and linked progressively and sequentially to leadership instruction in TRADOC schools.
b. Manage the Basic Strategic Art Program and the Joint Force Land Component Commander course.
c. Provide strategic leader development of the Army's senior leaders.
d. Establish and maintain liaison with the DCS, G–1; DCS, G–3/5/7; CAL; ARI; and other agencies, as needed, to
ensure the coordination of leadership research and instructional activities at USAWC with TRADOC leader development
programs, leadership instruction in TRADOC schools, development of Army leadership doctrine, and the overall leadership research program.
e. Provide research consultation and other assistance on request.
f. Participate actively in Army Profession and leadership research and conferences.
g. Provide results or an executive summary of all Army Profession, leader, leadership, and leader development studies
to MCCoE.
2–15. Superintendent, U. S. Military Academy
The Superintendent, USMA will—
a. Conduct the Basic Officer Leader Course A (BOLC A) pre-commissioning Army Profession and leader development
activities for the U.S. Corps of Cadets.
b. Ensure all cadets receive academic instruction grounded in empirical research that achieves the following learning
outcomes: the ability to reason ethically and to apply the moral principles of the Army Ethic in decisions and actions; the
ability to apply relevant frameworks, concepts, and evidence based theory to leadership situations; the ability to apply
scientific understanding of human behavior to assess and influence the actions of others.
c. Establish and maintain liaison with the DCS, G–1; DCS, G–3/5/7; TRADOC; CAL; CAPE; ARI; U.S. Army Cadet
Command; OCS; and other agencies, as needed, to ensure the coordination of Army Profession and leadership instructional
activities at USMA with other pre-commissioning programs, and with TRADOC instruction.

16

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

d. Provide consultation, coordination, research, and other assistance in support of other pre-commissioning, Army Profession, and leadership agencies, consistent with available resources and the USMA mission.
e. Participate in Army Profession and leadership research conferences, and assist MCCoE in the development of Army
Profession and leadership doctrine and training support materials, consistent with available resources and the Academy
mission.
f. Advise and assist CG, TRADOC, on Army Profession, character development and leadership theory, concept, and
changing perceptions of the leadership field.
g. Provide results or an executive summary of all Army Profession, leader, leadership, and leader development studies
to MCCoE.
2–16. Commandant, U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy
The Commandant, USASMA will—
a. Assist CAC in developing, reviewing, and recommending revisions to Army doctrine with regard to the role and
responsibilities of the NCO and Soldier.
b. Assist INCOPD on Army Profession and leadership instruction.
c. Assess, recommend, design, develop, and execute programs for NCO leader development and education through a
systematic, synchronized, and integrated plan, which provides the enlisted force with a comprehensive, single point-ofentry portal for engaging in PME and professional development.
d. Conduct strategic communications programs, exercises, seminars, and other activities to support inquiries and analysis benefiting the Army Profession and leadership.
e. Develop future strategies for NCOPDS.
f. Provide results or an executive summary of all Army Profession, leader, leadership, and leader development studies
to MCCoE.
2–17. Commandant, U.S. Army Warrant Officer Career College
The Commandant, USAWOCC will—
a. Integrate and implement Army Profession and leadership policy.
b. Conduct instruction in Army Profession, command, leadership, and management for all USAWOCC resident students. Coordinate with CAC to ensure instructions is integrated with and linked progressively and sequentially to leadership instruction in TRADOC schools.
c. Participate in Army Profession, leadership, and leadership research conferences, as appropriate.
d. Provide results or an executive summary of all Army Profession, leader, leadership, and leader development studies
to MCCoE.
2–18. Commanders of Army commands, Army service component commands, and direct reporting
units
ACOM, ASCC, and DRU Commanders will—
a. Ensure that unit level Army Profession and leadership training is conducted for assigned Active and RC forces and
Army Civilians in accordance with the Army Leader Development Strategy.
b. Supervise in-unit Army Profession and leadership training of individual ready reserve and individual mobilization
augmentee personnel assigned or attached to Active or RC units.
c. Participate in Army Profession and leadership research, symposia, seminars, surveys, and conferences, as appropriate.
d. Provide recommendations and feedback concerning Army Profession and leadership issues and programs to the DCS,
G–1 or the MCCoE, as appropriate.
e. Ensure compliance at all levels of leadership in accordance with introductory paragraph of responsibilities this chapter.
f. Internalize feedback received from their own assessments as commanders, organizational leaders, and individual
leaders responsible for individual and unit participation in the MSAF process. The leaders who have been assessed must
expend effort to understand their feedback and work diligently to use it for their continued development and for the good
of the Army.
g. Support participation of leaders and units in the MSAF programs, Leader360, and Unit360. Ensure completion of all
CDR360 program components for those subordinate CSL lieutenant colonel and colonel level commanders in the rating
chain (see appendix B for full detail on requirements).
h. Budget and allocate resources for the professional development (training and education as appropriate) for all members of the Army Profession.
AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

17

Appendix A
References
Section I
Required Publications
ADP 6–22
Army Leadership (Cited in para 1–9a.)
ADRP 1
The Army Profession (Cited in para 2–13p(6).)
ADRP 6–22
Army Leadership (Cited in para 1–11b.)
ALDS
The Army Leader Development Strategy (Cited in para 2–12k.) (Available at http://cgsc.edu./alds.)
AR 350–1
Army Training and Leader Development (Cited in para 2–7b.)
AR 623–3
Evaluation Reporting System (Cited in para 1–9f(1).)
AR 690–400
Total Army Performance Evaluation System (Cited in para 1–9f(1).)
DA Pam 350–58
Army Leader Development Program (Cited in para 1–9e.)
Section II
Related Publications
A related publication is a source of additional information. The user does not have to read it to understand this publication.
ADP 3–0
Unified Land Operations
ADP 6–0
Mission Command
AR 10–87
Army Commands, Army Service Component Commands, and Direct Reporting Units
AR 11–2
Managers’ Internal Control Program
AR 25–30
Army Publishing Program
AR 25–400–2
The Army Records Information Management System (ARIMS)
AR 600–20
Army Command Policy
AR 600–89
General Douglas MacArthur Leadership Award Program
AR 621–5
Army Continuing Education System
AR 690–950
Career Management

18

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

DA Pam 165–16
Moral Leadership/Values Stages of the Family Life Cycle
DA Pam 600–3
Commissioned Officer Professional Development and Career Management
DA Pam 600–4
U.S. Army Medical Department Officer Development and Career Management
DA Pam 600–25
U.S. Army Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development Guide
DODM 5500.7–R
Joint Ethics Regulation (JER) (Available at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/.)
FM 6–22
Leader Development
NGR 10–2
Organizations
and
Functions:
http://www.ngbpdc.ngb.army.mil.)

State

Area

Command,

Army

National

Guard

(Available

at

Title 10 United States Code
Armed Forces
Section III
Prescribed Forms
This section contains no entries.
Section IV
Referenced Forms
Unless otherwise indicated, DA forms are available on the Army Publishing (APD) Web site (http://www.apd.army.mil).
DA Form 11–2
Internal Control Evaluation Certification
DA Form 67–10–1
Company Grade Plate (01 - 03; WO1 - CW2) Officer Evaluation Report
DA Form 67–10–1A
Officer Evaluation Report Support Form
DA Form 67–10–2
Field Grade Plate (04 - 05; CW3 - CW5) Officer Evaluation Report
DA Form 67–10–3
Strategic Grade Plate (06) Officer Evaluation Report
DA Form 67–10–4
Strategic Grade Plate General Officer Evaluation Report
DA Form 2028
Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms
DA Form 2166–9–1A
NCO Evaluation Report Support Form
DA Form 7223–1
Base System Civilian Performance Counseling Checklist/Record

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

19

Appendix B
Multi-Source Assessment and Feedback
B–1. The Multi-Source Assessment and Feedback Program
a. The Army has developed several multi-source assessment programs to enhance adaptability, self-awareness, and
facilitate development of leaders’ strengths and weaknesses. Multi-source assessments are also called 360-degree assessments, which build on the Army’s standard practice of conducting after action reviews for units and leaders. The Army’s
MSAF program consists of three subprograms that utilize a 360-degree feedback approach that allows Soldiers and Army
Civilians to navigate complex leadership challenges, to enhance leader adaptability and self-awareness, and to identify
Army leaders’ strengths and weaknesses. All MSAF programs use an online tool to collect leadership assessments from
subordinates, peers, and superiors who know the leader best, and provides feedback to the leader. The goals of the MSAF
program are to provide the following:
(1) Frank, honest feedback.
(2) Multiple viewpoints.
(3) Personal insight.
(4) Perceived leadership strengths and developmental needs.
(5) Recommended leader development resources.
b. All MSAF programs help leaders become more self-aware and guides their preparation for future leader responsibilities. MSAF requires candid and forthright assessment by those asked to participate in the process. All instruments used
as part of the MSAF program conform to leadership doctrine (ADP 6–22, ADRP 6–22) and assessment questions on both
instruments focus on core leader competencies and important supporting leadership behaviors. Features of these programs
include the following:
(1) Leader development.
(2) Anonymous input.
(3) Confidential feedback.
(4) Personal coaching.
(5) Support for IDP.
(6) Assessment.
(7) Individual feedback reports (IFRs).
(8) Individual Portfolio.
c. All MSAF programs are developmental in nature, separate, and distinct from the Army’s formal performance evaluation system. MSAF programs impact is a better-led force, with leaders who are capable of leading in a range of military
operations. MSAF programs support the imperatives of the Army Leader Development Strategy. The CAL is the lead
agent for all MSAF program support functions.
d. MSAF programs require candid and honest assessment by those asked to participate in the process. Selected assessors
have a professional responsibility to provide feedback. For all MSAF programs, assessors will keep individual-level ratings
confidential, and programs will only report results at the group level (peer, subordinate, or superior).
e. There are three sub-programs within the MSAF, the regulations for each discussed in detail in the following sections.
The CDR360, a rater initiated event for commanders, the Leader360, a self-initiated leader event (formerly MSAF360),
and Unit360, a commander directed organizational event. These three sub-programs are similar but differ in several key
aspects. The results of CDR360, leader and unit events are for developmental purposes; none are shown to the senior rater
or used as information for DA Form 67–10–1. A key difference is that the CDR360 feedback report is provided to the
commander and their current rater. In leader or unit events, the participating leader retains ownership of the feedback and
may voluntarily provide it to the rater but is not required to do so. In addition, the CDR360 program requires a developmental discussion between the commander and rater after receipt of the assessment report. Completion of CDR360 fulfills
the commander’s requirement for participation in the MSAF program as required by AR 350–1 and AR 623–3 for that
phase of the Soldier’s career. Similar to the self-initiated leader or unit events, CDR360 participation will be tracked with
a completion check date-box on the commander’s DA Form 67–10–1 as required by AR 623–3, but no CDR360 results
will be used on the DA Form 67–10 series.
f. This program applies to Active Army and RC Soldiers from the rank of sergeant (SGT) through colonel (COL), and
Army civilian leaders who are required to complete an MSAF assessment (Leader360 or Unit360) once every 36 months.
The exception is CSL commanders at the O–5 and O–6 levels who will complete the CDR360 in place of the Leader360
or Unit360 (see paragraph B–3). Subordinates, peers, and superiors of these leaders must participate in the program and
provide assessments when notified by the MSAF program.

20

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

B–2. Leader360 and Unit360 Program Execution
a. Leader360 and Unit360 events apply in operational, institutional, and self-development domains to all NCOs, officers (O–7 and below) and civilian leaders in the Army. Although these are the targeted groups for participation, all Army
personnel can and are encouraged to participate regardless of rank or duty position. DOD personnel who possess a common
access card can also register to participate in MSAF. This assists Army personnel in Joint assignments in receiving feedback from their other-than-Army superiors, peers, and subordinates.
b. Individual leaders are responsible for completing either the Leader360 or Unit360 once every 36 months and for
internalizing feedback received from their own assessments. This policy is applicable to RA, USAR, ARNG, and Army
Civilian leaders. Subordinates, peers, and superiors of these leaders may participate in the program and provide assessments when notified by the MSAF program. For officers, the completion date of their last Leader360 or Unit360 will be
recorded to meet the DA Form 67–10 series report requirement.
c. All ACOMs, ASCCs, DRUs, and the ARNG are responsible for supporting participation of their leaders and units in
the program and supporting the assessments that are given by those familiar with the leaders when notified by Leader360
or Unit360 instructions.
d. Leader360 and Unit360 events are essentially the same and result in the same feedback report for participating leaders, the key difference is in the administration of the event. In both types, the leader completes a self-assessment; and
selected subordinates, peers, and superiors complete their assessments of the leader. Training, instructions, assessment
instruments, and feedback products related to the Leader360 and Unit360 are available at https://msaf.army.mil.
e. Leader360 events are triggered by orders for PME or CES or as a self-initiated event. All individual leaders participating in Leader360 receive a confidential IFR.
(1) Professional military education courses.
(a) Students scheduled to attend selected PME courses will be notified through the Army Training Requirements and
Resources System to participate in a Leader360 assessment. Timely completion of required steps will allow feedback to
be available during resident course phases. PME and CES coaches can become familiar with Leader360 assessments,
feedback, and coaching by using the online training available at https://msaf.army.mil. Coaching (via Defense Collaboration Services or telephone) is available from a pool of coaches. Virtual coaching will be scheduled jointly by the leader
and the coach.
(b) Students scheduled to attend Advanced Leaders Course, Senior Leaders Course, Sergeants Major Course, (WOAC),
Warrant Officer Staff Course, Warrant Officer Senior Service Education (WOSSE), Captain Career Course (CCC), School
of Advanced Leadership and Tactics, intermediate level education and the Battalion Command, and PCC must participate
in Leader360. Others PME and Non-PME military courses are encouraged to participate in the MSAF program.
(c) PME faculty, cadre, and staff will provide coaching to help students interpret Leader360 results and plan development action plans for improvement.
(2) Civilian Education System courses.
(a) Students scheduled to attend selected CES courses will be notified through Civilian Human Resources Training
Application System to participate in an MSAF assessment. Timely completion of required steps allows feedback to be
available during resident course phases.
(b) Students scheduled to attend the basic, intermediate, and advanced courses will participate in MSAF. Other civilian
courses are encouraged to participate in the MSAF program.
(c) CES faculty and staff will provide coaching to help students interpret MSAF results and plan development action
plans for improvement.
(3) Self-initiated. Any Army leader (military or civilian) can conduct a self-initiated Leader360 assessment. The frequency of assessments for an individual should be based on length of time in current assignment, changes in assignment,
or every 36 months. Limited virtual coaching (via telephone) is available from a pool of coaches and can be requested via
the MSAF Web site.
f. Unit360 events are triggered by the unit commander and are conducted jointly as an organization, typically designed
for Modified Table of Organization and Equipment (MTOE) and table of distribution and allowances (TDA) units. The
instrument and process for completing the assessments are the same as the Leader360. All individual leaders participating
in a Unit360 administration receive a confidential IFR.
(1) Units should schedule execution of a Unit360 administration on a cyclical basis.
(a) A recommended method would be to conduct a Unit360 event aligned to the Organizational Inspection Program
(OIP).
(b) Before execution of the OIP units should contact the CAC – CAL to schedule an MSAF unit event.
(2) Units should designate a survey group administrator from within their unit.
(a) The survey group administrator will assist in the coordination of assessments and the designation of assessors for
unit leaders.
AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

21

(b) Program personnel and administrators are required to enter into non-disclosure agreements and pledges of privacy.
(3) Aggregated results of the Unit360 event are provided to the commander or director in a unit roll-up report (URR)
which can serve as additional information about unit leadership strengths and developmental needs and help provide focus
to unit leader development programs.
(4) Individual leaders will receive a confidential IFR.
(5) Coaching is available for leaders assigned to MTOE units. A coach will assist the leader in interpreting the leader’s
IFR and in generating an IDP. Virtual coaching (via Defense Collaboration Services or telephone) is available from a pool
of coaches. Coaching is scheduled jointly by the leader and the coach.
g. Types of reports.
(1) Individual reports. The online MSAF platform provides a portfolio where an individual leader can store and retrieve their Leader360 and Unit360 IFRs and developmental plans. This portfolio can only be accessed by the individual
leader. At the conclusion of the assessment period, the leader can access a protected, electronic IFR, which can be converted to an IDP. Ratings by individual assessors are kept confidential and results are only reported at the group level
(peer, subordinate, or superior). Virtual coaching is available for leaders participating in Leader360 and Unit360 and can
be scheduled via the MSAF Web site.
(2) Unit reports. Upon completion of a Unit360 administration, aggregate reports will be provided to commanders,
directors, or other organizational leaders. These aggregate reports are assembled so no identifiers of persons assessed or
making the assessments are provided. No individual results are discernible in these reports. Aggregate reports are not
provided when unit or group results do not meet a specified number of participants. MSAF is a commander’s leader development program that can be tailored to unit needs. Commanders can receive URRs that identify leadership strengths
and weaknesses in their units. This valuable feedback can be an important resource for organizational leader development
and unit training.
(3) Unspecified aggregate reports. Periodic aggregate reports may be provided to leaders of institutional, educational,
and training functions. These institutional reports can provide leadership analyses that correspond to particular cohorts by
rank, educational level, or other grouping stipulations.
h. Accessibility and confidentiality of reports.
(1) IFRs from Leader360 or Unit360 events are strictly confidential. Only the assessed leader can see and control assessment results.
(2) IFRs are stored in the individual’s confidential portfolio on the MSAF platform.
(3) Leaders may share their IFRs and results with others of their own choosing.
(4) Superiors or authorities may not demand to see results from the individual leader or from any program personnel or
database administrators.
(5) IFRs for individual leaders cannot be used or requisitioned as part of an official investigation by the IG or other
entities.
(6) The DA Form 67–10 series report will reflect the date an individual has completed a Leader360 or Unit360 event
within the last 36 months. Leaders may print completion certificates demonstrating the completion of their assessment
from the MSAF online platform.
(7) Leader360 or Unit360 results will not be used as part of the formal evaluation of any officer, NCO, or civilian
leader.
(8) High-level encryption and other protection steps are used to prevent unauthorized disclosure.
B–3. Commander 360 Program Execution
The CDR360 program is designed to facilitate a leader’s growth and development by providing information from multiple
perspectives on the leader’s capabilities to facilitate more informed coaching, counseling, and dialogue. The program is
developmental and includes a multi-source assessment of the commander’s performance from their current subordinates,
peers, and superiors. It also includes a mandatory discussion between the commander and their current rater to ensure that
a plan for development and continued growth results from the assessment. Relevant CDR360 training, instructions, assessment instruments, and feedback reports are only available through the online platform at https://cdr360.army.mil/.
a. Population. The CDR360 program is required for all Active Component CSL commanders at the O–5 and O–6 level
and their current raters (note: this does not include key billets filled from the CSL system).
b. Timing. Commanders are required to complete two CDR360 events during the course of their command tenure, both
of which are initiated by their current rater. For Regular Army (RA) commanders, the first event will occur within 3–6
months after assumption of command (with the development discussion occurring no later than the sixth month of command) and the second event will occur 15–18 months into command (with the development discussion occurring no later
than the eighteenth month of command). The CNGB and the CAR will determine the windows for the events of their

22

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

respective commanders A CDR360 event is complete when both the assessment and the developmental discussion have
taken place.
(1) All participating commanders and raters are required to complete DA Form 67–10–1A and DA Form 2166–9–1A
(NCO Evaluation Report Support Form) for NCOs within the Evaluation Entry System (https://evaluations.hrc.army.mil)
within the first 90 days of command.
(2) Participating commanding raters are also required to complete the online CDR360 training on the purpose and
performance standards under assessment.
c. Rater responsibilities. The CDR360 program is executed as a rater’s program, and the rater bears the responsibility
for initiating the CDR360 process for eligible CSL subordinate commanders and for the timely completion of all program
components within the event administration window.
(1) The current rater is responsible for selecting the majority of assessors for CDR360 from the pool of individuals who
currently work with the commander as a subordinate, peer, or superior. Commanders will also be allowed to nominate two
assessors (one peer and one subordinate) to the rater for consideration. The final list of assessors will be kept confidential
and not shared with the commander. Selected assessors have a professional responsibility to provide feedback.
(2) Raters may utilize a designated representative from within their unit to assist in the coordination of assessments and
the designation of assessors for commanders. Designated representatives will not have access to reports and are required
to enter into non-disclosure agreements and pledges of privacy.
(3) When first participating in the program, raters will request through the CDR360 Web site additional guidance from
a leader development coach to ensure accurate report interpretation in advance of the first developmental discussion with
a commander. Leader development coaches will be made available through a capability provided by the CAC – CAL and
scheduled via the CDR360 online platform.
(4) In situations where the commander’s current rater is unavailable, the senior rater will assume responsibility for
completion of the commander’s CDR360.
d. Commanders feedback report. The CFR will generate once the commander, current rater and a minimum number
of assessors have completed the assessment. The report will be available on the CDR360 Web site for the commander and
their current rater (see K–2A for more detail on report confidentiality and access) for use in the developmental discussion.
e. Developmental discussion. Once the assessment phase is complete and the CFR has been generated. The rater and
commander must complete a developmental discussion on the results. This mandatory meeting will give the rater and
commander the opportunity to engage in a candid, in depth and more informed discussion about the leader’s capabilities,
performance, and development. The requirement for discussion reinforces the Army’s expectations that raters are to engage
in the leadership growth of their commanders as leaders. The exact format and structure of the discussion is left to the
discretion of the individual rater but should result in an executable plan for development.
(1) The developmental discussion for each event should occur within two weeks of receipt of the CFR and within the
given event administration window (for example, no later than the sixth month of command for event 1 and no later than
the eighteenth month of command for event 2).
(2) While correspondence and telephone conversations may be used as an alternative because of geographic separation,
these will be followed by a face-to-face discussion between the commander and their current rater at the earliest opportunity.
f. Tracking. The CDR360 event requirement is not fulfilled until the assessment and developmental discussion are
completed. The commander and rater will annotate the date the developmental discussion occurred on the CDR360 Web
site. The date of the developmental discussion is the date that will be annotated on the commander’s DA Form 67–10 series
report, fulfilling their MSAF requirement for that phase in their career.
g. Confidentiality and accessibility of CDR360 reports. All CDR360 data will be collected, maintained, and shared in
accordance with the Privacy Act. The CFR will be available on the CDR360 Web site and only to the commander and
their current rater (on the commander’s and rater’s dashboards respectively).
(1) Only the current rater will have access to the CFR. If the rater for a commander is different for the second event,
then the second rater will only have access to the CFR for event 2 and will not be provided access to the CFR for event 1.
(2) CDR360 reports will only be available for the commander’s current role, and past reports will not be released for
review in subsequent positions.
(a) The CDR360 report will not be shared with the senior rater and will not be used as input into the commander’s DA
Form 67–10 series report.
(b) Other individuals, agencies, or authorities may not request results from the individual commander, rater, CDR360
program personnel or database administrators. The CFR cannot be used or requisitioned as part of an official investigation
by the IG or other agencies.

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

23

(c) High-level encryption and other protection steps are used to prevent unauthorized disclosure. CDR360 program
personnel, rater designated representatives and administrators are required to enter into non-disclosure agreements and
pledges of privacy.
(d) Individual-level ratings by assessors will be kept confidential, and results will only be reported at the group level
(peer, subordinate, or superior). Commanders may share their CDR360 results with others.

24

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

Appendix C
Army Career Tracker Individual Development Plan
C–1. Army Career Tracker
The ACT is a Web-based Army leader development tool serving as a single point of entry for career management and
development. The ACT incorporates a PDM designed by the contemporary operational environments and Force Modernization Proponents personalized to the user by matching their history to proponent approves maps. By using the PDM
information, the ACT will make targeted recommendations for future assignments, training, education, and self-development. The ACT provides the capability to organize, collect, plan, schedule, and arrange individual developmental opportunities into a plan that enables users to satisfy goals and objectives over time. The ACT supports implementation of the
Army Learning Concept 2015 by allowing user to see a lifelong learning plan for their specialty, select an appropriate path,
and receive feedback on their progress. The ACT provides the IDP to facilitate this process.
a. The ACT provides Soldiers and leaders visibility of their PDM/career map and enables them to create and update
their IDP.
b. Additionally, the ACT provides an improved career tracking capability with real-time insights. A comprehensive
management dashboard displays reports and scorecards within one easy view, giving individuals, leaders, and staff unprecedented access to Soldiers career, training, and education performance metrics. Insights for this program include the
following:
(1) Awareness of the need for change.
(2) Desire to participate and support the change.
(3) Knowledge on how to change.
(4) Ability to implement the required skills and behaviors.
c. The introduction of the Soldier Life Cycle occurs in the ACT using the IDP within 30 days of arrival to the first
permanent duty station for military and for Army Civilians during on-boarding as part of the Army Civilian acculturation
process.
C–2. Individual Development Plan
The development of a culture of lifelong learning coupled with professional and personal goal setting is mutually beneficial
to the Army and its personnel. The ACT IDP enables direct line supervisors to access the system in an effort to enhance
their ability to mentor and facilitate the development process.
a. Employee checklist for preparing an individual development plan
(1) Identification of personal goals.
(a) Identify the assignments or job duties you would like to complete this year.
(b) List future activities that you would like to accomplish.
(2) Identification of organizational goal.
(a) Identify organizational core competencies.
(b) Identify career field core competencies and career ladders.
(c) List long-range training opportunities that provide rotational assignments or developmental assignments outside
your chosen career.
(3) Identification of objectives.
(a) List specific job activities that you enjoyed in the past year.
(b) List specific job activities that you did not enjoy in the past year.
(c) Identify elements of your job where you excel.
(4) Identification of developmental activities.
(a) Identify and prioritize the knowledge, skills, and abilities you do not have or those you need.
(b) Identify short-term development activities that will help you acquire the needed knowledge, skill, and abilities.
(c) List the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to improve your performance.
b. Supervisor checklist for reviewing individual development plans
(1) Reviewing the individual development plan.
(a) Are the employee’s goals realistic based on your assessment of the employee’s capabilities and past performance?
(b) Are the employee’s goals consistent with unit needs, core competencies, and organizational goals?
(c) Has the employee considered a full range of potential developmental activities, including self-study, on-the-job
training, seminars, workshops, professional society meetings and conferences, details, and special assignments?
(d) Is the level of proposed developmental activities reasonable given the anticipated workload?
(2) Analysis of organizational needs.
AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

25

(a) Thinking from the perspective of the organization as a whole, and of your supervisory perspective, what are the
needs and objectives of the organization, now and in the future?
(b) What are the functions and tasks that must be accomplished in your organization’s daily work if it is going to meet
those objectives?
(c) What competencies are needed among your staff to accomplish these functions and tasks?
c. IDP objectives result from negotiation and mutual agreement. Supervisors act in behalf of the organization to ensure
that development or application of the targeted competencies is needed by the organization. Employees act on their own
behalf to ensure that developing or more fully utilizing the targeted competencies will result in greater satisfaction with
their work and enhanced potential for career progression.

26

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

Appendix D
Internal Control Evaluation
D–1. Function
The functions covered by this evaluation are to set policies and responsibilities for all aspects of the Army Profession and
leadership policy, doctrine, training, and research.
D–2. Purpose
The purpose of this evaluation is to assist assessable unit managers, internal control administrators, and test control officers
in evaluating the key internal controls outlined. It is not intended to cover all controls.
D–3. Instructions
Answers must be based on the actual testing of key internal controls (for example, document analysis, direct observation,
sampling, simulation, or other). Answers that indicate deficiencies must be explained and the corrective action identified
in supporting documentation. These internal controls must be evaluated at least once every 5 years. Certification that the
evaluation has been conducted must be accomplished on DA Form 11–2 (Internal Control Evaluation Certification).
D–4. Test questions
a. Are Army leaders exemplifying the Army’s core leader competencies?
b. Are organizations displaying appropriate command climates representative of a healthy culture?
c. Are leaders who display destructive or toxic leadership behaviors identified and either developed to cease those
behaviors or removed from the Army Profession?
d. Are all organizations executing their responsibilities in regard to the Army Profession and leadership?
D–5. Supersession
This checklist is the Internal Control Evaluation Checklist for Army Profession and leadership policy.
D–6. Comments
Help make this a better tool for evaluating internal controls. Submit comments to Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) ATTN: Diversity and Leadership, 111 Army Pentagon, SAMR–ZA, Washington DC 20310–
0111

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

27

Glossary
Section I
Abbreviations
AASA
Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Army
ACOM
Army command
ACT
Army Career Tracker
AR
Army Regulation
ARI
Army Research Institute
ARNG
Army National Guard
ARSTAF
Army Staff
ASA (M&RA)
Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
ASCC
Army service component command
BOLC
Basic Officer Leaders Course
CAC
Combined Arms Center
CAL
Center for Army Leadership
CAPE
Center for the Army Profession and Ethic
CAR
Chief, Army Reserve
CASCOM
Combined Arms Support Command
CCC
Captain Career Course
CCH
Chief of Chaplains
CES
Civilian Education System
CFR
Commanders Feedback Report
CG
commanding general
CGSC
Command and General Staff College
28

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

CMH
Chief of Military History
CNGB
Chief, National Guard Bureau
COL
colonel
CPA
Chief of Public Affairs
CSA
Chief of Staff, Army
CSL
Centralized Selection List
DA
Department of the Army
DA PAM
Department of the Army pamphlet
DARNG
Director, Army National Guard
DCS
Deputy Chief of Staff
DOD
Department of Defense
DRU
direct reporting unit
FORSCOM
U.S. Army Forces Command
HQDA
Headquarters, Department of the Army
HRC
Human Resources Command
IDP
individual development plan
IFR
individual feedback report
IG
inspector general
IMT
initial military training
INCOPD
Institute for Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development
LDP
leader development plan
MEDCOM
U.S. Army Medical Command
MSAF
multi-source assessment and feedback
AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

29

MTOE
Modified Table of Organization and Equipment
NCO
noncommissioned officer
NCOPDS
Noncommisioned Officer Professional Development System
OCS
Officer Candidate School
OIP
Organizational Inspection Program
PCC
pre-command course
PDM
professional development model
PME
professional military education
RA
Regular Army
RC
Reserve Component
ROTC
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
SGT
sergeant
SSD
structured self-development
TDA
table of distribution and allowances
TIG
The Inspector General
TJAG
The Judge Advocate General
TRADOC
Training and Doctrine Command
TSG
The Surgeon General
URR
unit roll-up report
USAR
U.S. Army Reserve
USASMA
U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy
USAWC
U.S. Army War College
USAWOCC
U.S. Army Warrant Officer Career College
30

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

USMA
U.S. Military Academy
WOAC
Warrant Officer Advanced Course
WOCS
Warrant Officer Candidate School
WOSSE
Warrant Officer Senior Service Education
Section II
Terms
Army Career Tracker
The ACT is a leader development tool that provides a single point of entry for career management and development for
the enlisted, officer, and civilian cohorts, to include all three components, with a specific set of functionalities for each
component.
Army Civilian Corps Creed
The professional attitudes and beliefs that characterize the Army Civilian. At its core, the Army Civilian Corps Creed
requires unrelenting and consistent determination to do what is right and to do it with pride, both in war and peace. No
matter the conditions, it is the Army Civilians’ selfless commitment to the Nation, the Army, and fellow Army civilians
and Soldiers that keeps them going. It is the professional attitude that inspires every Army Civilian (see figure 1–1).
Army Values
The baseline, core, and foundation of every Soldier. They define all Soldiers: who they are, what they do, and what they
stand for. They drive Soldiers internally (their beliefs) and externally (their actions), at home and work, in peace and war.
a. Loyalty. Bear true faith and allegiance to the U.S. Constitution, the Army, your unit, and other Soldiers. This means
supporting the military and civilian chain of command, as well as devoting oneself to the welfare of others.
b. Duty. Fulfill your obligations. Duty is the legal and moral obligation to do what should be done without being told.
c. Respect. Treat people as they should be treated. This is the same as do unto others as you would have done to you.
d. Selfless service. Put the welfare of the Nation, the Army, and your subordinates before your own. This means putting
the welfare of the Nation and accomplishment of the mission ahead of personal desires.
e. Honor. Live up to all the Army Values. This implies always following your moral compass in any circumstance.
f. Integrity. Do what is right, legally, and morally. This is the thread woven through the fabric of the professional Army
ethic. It means honesty, uprightness, the avoidance of deception, and steadfast adherence to standards of behavior.
g. Personal Courage. Face fear, danger, or adversity (physical or moral). This means being brave under all circumstances
(physical or moral).
Career Readiness Standards
A set of required actions for eligible Soldiers to complete prior to transition dates as defined by the Secretary of Defense.
Climate
The state of morale and level of satisfaction of members of an organization.
Command
The authority that a commander in the military service lawfully exercises over subordinates by virtue of rank or assignment.
Command includes the leadership, authority, responsibility, and accountability for effectively using available resources
and planning the employment of, organizing, directing, coordinating, and controlling military forces to accomplish assigned missions. It includes responsibility for unit readiness, health, welfare, morale, and discipline of assigned personnel.
Culture
The set of long-held values, beliefs, expectations, and practices shared by a group that signifies what is important and
influences how an organization operates.
Developmental leadership assessment training
Training support packages that teach leaders to identify and analyze subordinate leader behaviors and how to provide
feedback and developmental counseling.

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

31

Diversity
The different attributes, experiences, and backgrounds of our Soldiers, Civilians, and Family Members that further enhance
our global capabilities and contribute to an adaptive, culturally astute Army.
Doctrine
Fundamental principles by which military forces or elements thereof guide their actions. Doctrine evolves from theory and
concepts based on values, beliefs, historical perspective, experience, and research.
Human Dimension
The cognitive, physical, and social components of Soldier, Army Civilian, leader, and organizational development and
performance essential to raise, prepare, and employ the Army in unified land operations.
Inclusion
A process that cultivates a work environment that connects Soldiers, Civilians, and Family Members; encourages collaboration, flexibility, and fairness; and leverages diversity so that all are enabled to participate and contribute to their full
potential.
Leader development
The deliberate, continuous, sequential, and progressive process, grounded in Army Values, that grows Soldiers and civilians into competent and confident leaders capable of decisive action. Leader development is achieved through lifelong
synthesis of the knowledge, skills, and experiences gained through institutional training and education, organizational
training, operational experience, and self-development.
Leadership
The process of influencing people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation to accomplish the mission and improve
the organization.
Leadership assessment
A structured process that focuses on developing leaders by using multiple observations and frequent feedback sessions.
Assessment provides information about a leader's readiness or potential to lead effectively in a particular position or
level within the Army.
Mentorship
A voluntary and developmental relationship that exists between a person with greater experience and a person with less
experience, characterized by mutual trust and respect.
Noncommisioned Officer Professional Development System
NCOPDS will adhere to seven leader development imperatives that will guide policy and actions in order to develop NCOs
with the required qualities and enduring leader characteristics. These guiding principles remain constant and consistent
from initial entry into the Army to transition creating a leader development continuum that is deliberate, continuous, and
progressive. These imperatives will drive the synchronization and implementation of the NCO2020 Strategy:
a. Commitment to the Army Profession, lifelong learning, and development.
b. Balance the Army’s commitment to the training, education, and experience components of leader development.
c. Manage talent to benefit both the institution and the individual.
d. Select and develop leaders with positive leader attributes and proficiency in core leadership competencies for responsibility at higher levels.
e. Prepare adaptive and creative NCOs capable of operating within the complexity of the operational environment and the
entire range of military operations.
f. Embed Mission Command principles in leader development.
g. Value a broad range of leader experiences and developmental opportunities.
Policy
A written communication that initiates or governs action, conduct, or procedures, giving a definite course or method of
action, or that determines present and future decisions. Policy implements, interprets, or prescribes public law and executive orders and explains the execution of actions, or directives from a higher level; it delegates authority and assigns responsibility; and it dictates an action to be carried out, a procedure to be followed, a form to be used, or a report to be
submitted.
Self–development
A planned, continuous, lifelong process individual leaders use to enhance their competencies and potential for progressively more complex and higher-level assignments (see DA Pam 350–58).

32

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

Service Ethos
The internal shared attitudes and beliefs that embody the spirit of the Army profession for Army Civilians.
Warrior Ethos
The Warrior Ethos is the very essence of what it means to be a Soldier. The Warrior Ethos describes the frame of mind of
the professional Soldier and proclaims a Soldier’s selfless commitment to the Nation, mission, unit, and fellow Soldiers.
When internalized, it produces the will to win.
Section III
Special Abbreviations and Terms
CDR360
Commander 360

AR 600–100 • 5 April 2017

33

UNCLASSIFIED

PIN 059983–000

