Army Regulation 600–100

Personnel—General

Army
Leadership

Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC
8 March 2007

UNCLASSIFIED

SUMMARY of CHANGE
AR 600–100
Army Leadership
This major revision, dated 8 March 2007-o

Updates the definition of leadership and introduces the concept of the
Pentathlete (para 1-4).

o

Adds the Army Values, Warrior Ethos, Soldiers Creed, and the Civilian Creed
(para 1-5).

o

Adds Core Leader Competencies (para 1-6).

o

Updates the levels of leadership (para 1-7).

o

Adds the Leader Development Model; updates the three leader development
domains; and adds counseling, coaching, and mentorship as tools for
development, assessment, and feedback (para 1-8).

o

Designates additional Army Leadership responsibilities (paras 2-2, 2-10, 212, 2-18, 2-20).

o

Updates appendix A and glossary.

*Army Regulation 600–100

Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC
8 March 2007

Effective 22 March 2007
Personnel—General

Army Leadership
may modify chapters and policies contained in this regulation.

History. This publication is a major
revision.
Summary. This regulation establishes
Army leadership policy and sets forth responsibilities for all aspects of leadership
and leader development policy, doctrine,
training, and research.
Applicability. This regulation applies to
the Active Army, the Army National
Guard/Army National Guard of the United
States, and the U.S. Army Reserve, unless
otherwise stated. This regulation also applies to the Department of the Army civilians. During mobilization, the proponent

Proponent and exception authority.
The proponent of this regulation is the
Deputy Chief of Staff, G–1. The proponent has the authority to approve exceptions or waivers to this regulation that are
consistent with controlling law and regulations. The proponent may delegate this
approval authority, in writing, to a division chief within the proponent agency or
its direct reporting unit or field operating
agency, in the grade of colonel or the
civilian equivalent. Activities may request
a waiver to this regulation by providing
justification that includes a full analysis of
the expected benefits and must include
formal review by the activity’s senior
legal officer. All waiver requests will be
endorsed by the commander or senior
leader of the requesting activity and forwarded through their higher headquarters
to the policy proponent. Refer to AR
25–30 for specific guidance.

this regulation and establishment of command and local forms are prohibited without prior approval from Headquarters,
Department of the Army, ATTN:
DAPE–HRI, 300 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310–0300.
Suggested improvements. Users are
invited to send comments and suggested
improvements on DA Form 2028 (Recommended Changes to Publications and
Blank Forms) directly to the Deputy Chief
of Staff, G–1, ATTN: Human Resources
Policy Directorate (DAPE–HRI), 300
Army Pentagon, Washington, DC
20310–0300.
Distribution. This publication is available in electronic media only and is intended for command levels A, B, C, D,
and E for the Active Army, the Army
National Guard/Army National Guard of
the United States, and the U.S. Army
Reserve.

Army management control process.
This regulation contains management control provisions, but does not identify key
management controls that must be
evaluated.
Supplementation. Supplementation of

Contents (Listed by paragraph and page number)
Chapter 1
General, page 1
Purpose • 1–1, page 1
References • 1–2, page 1
Explanation of abbreviations and terms • 1–3, page 1
Leadership overview • 1–4, page 1
Army Culture and leadership • 1–5, page 1
Core leader competencies • 1–6, page 3
Leadership levels • 1–7, page 3
Leader development • 1–8, page 4

*This publication supersedes AR 600–100, 17 September 1993.

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

UNCLASSIFIED

i

Contents—Continued
Chapter 2
Responsibilities, page 6
General • 2–1, page 6
Secretary of the Army • 2–2, page 6
Chief of Staff, Army • 2–3, page 6
Deputy Chief of Staff, G–1 • 2–4, page 6
Commanding General, Human Resources Command • 2–5, page 7
Director, U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences • 2–6, page 7
Deputy Chief of Staff, G–3/5/7 • 2–7, page 7
Commanding General, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command • 2–8, page 7
Commanding General, U.S. Army Accessions Command/Deputy Commanding General, Initial Military Training
• 2–9, page 8
Commanding General, Combined Arms Support Command • 2–10, page 8
Commanding General, Combined Arms Center/Commandant, U.S. Army Command and General Staff College
• 2–11, page 8
Director, Center for Army Leadership • 2–12, page 9
Commandant, U.S. Army War College • 2–13, page 9
Superintendent, United States Military Academy • 2–14, page 10
Chief of Military History • 2–15, page 10
The Inspector General • 2–16, page 10
The Judge Advocate General • 2–17, page 10
Chief of Chaplains • 2–18, page 10
The Surgeon General/Commanding General, U.S. Army Medical Command • 2–19, page 10
Chief, National Guard Bureau • 2–20, page 11
State Adjutants General • 2–21, page 11
Chief, Army Reserve • 2–22, page 11
Commanders • 2–23, page 11
Appendix A.

References, page 12

Figure List
Figure 1–1: Army Values, page 2
Figure 1–2: Warrior Ethos, page 2
Figure 1–3: Soldier’s Creed, page 2
Figure 1–4: Civilian Creed, page 3
Figure 1–5: Army training and leader development process, page 5
Glossary

ii

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

Chapter 1
General
1–1. Purpose
This regulation—
a. Establishes Army policy for leadership, by defining key terms associated with leadership, assigning responsibilities for management of leadership policy, and clarifying responsibilities and definitions among the Army leadership
policy proponent, Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS), G–1, the Army leader development policy proponent (DCS, G–3/5/7),
and the Center for Army Leadership proponent, the United States (US) Army Training and Doctrine Command/
Combined Arms Center (TRADOC/CAC) with the goal of successfully synchronizing all leadership and leader
development policy.
b. Provides direction and guidance to the Center for Army Leadership (CAL) (through TRADOC/CAC) for
research, doctrine development, leadership assessment, training, and evaluation in all areas pertaining to Army
leadership.
1–2. References
Required and related publications and prescribed and referenced forms are listed in appendix A.
1–3. Explanation of abbreviations and terms
Abbreviations and terms used in this regulation are explained in the glossary.
1–4. Leadership overview
a. The Army defines leadership as influencing people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation, while
operating to accomplish the mission and improve the organization.
b. The Department of the Army (DA) mission is to provide necessary forces and capabilities to combatant
commanders to support national security and defense strategies. The Army’s strategic objectives clearly state the
Army’s purpose: provide relevant and ready land power for the 21st century security environment; train and equip
Soldiers to serve as warriors and grow as adaptive leaders; sustain an all-volunteer force composed of highly competent
Soldiers that are provided an equally high quality of life; and provide infrastructure and support to enable the force to
fulfill its strategic roles and missions. The means of this strategy are people more specifically, leaders. This regulation
focuses on leaders at all levels and in all cohorts: officers, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers, Soldiers, and
DA civilians. These leaders represent the means for the Army to achieve its desired end.
c. The DA develops competent and multifaceted military and civilian leaders who personify the Army values and
the warrior ethos in all aspects from warfighting, to statesmanship, to enterprise management. The Army develops
qualities in its leaders to enable them to respond effectively to what they will face. The DA describes the leaders it is
creating as “Pentathletes,” whose versatility and athleticism - qualities that reflect the essence of our Army - will
enable them to learn and adapt in ambiguous situations in a constantly evolving environment. Pentathlete leaders are
innovative, adaptive, and situationally aware professionals who demonstrate character in everything that they do, are
experts in the profession of arms, boldly confront uncertainty, and solve complex problems. They are decisive and
prudent risk takers who effectively manage, lead, and change organizations. Pentathletes are professionally educated,
and dedicated to lifelong learning; resilient, mentally and physically agile, empathetic, and self-aware; and confidently
lead Soldiers and civilians, build teams, and achieve the Army’s over-arching strategic goals, while engendering loyalty
and trust.
d. Leaders must be able to operate independently in an ambiguous, dynamic, and politically sensitive environment.
Leaders at all levels must be able to communicate, coordinate, and negotiate with a variety of personnel, including joint
and coalition forces, interagency partners, nongovernmental organizations, local leaders, U.S. and foreign media,
civilians, contractors, and people of different cultures and languages.
e. Leaders must maintain tactical and technical competence, as applicable in their designated fields; keep abreast of,
and remain adept in advances in information technology; and maintain their knowledge of the standards of conduct,
policy, law, rules of engagement, and the Geneva Conventions.
f. Leaders must be competent, full spectrum warfighters, and professionals who understand the strategic implications
of their actions, behaviors, and decisions on Army, Department of Defense (DOD), and national objectives. They must
understand that failure to act can impede operational progress by delaying development and delivery of required
resources, through increased anti-American sentiment and enemy resistance, and by strengthening the appeal of ideas
propagated by U.S. adversaries. Leaders must reinforce the view that actions which are counter to Army values and the
standards of conduct can compromise the nation’s strategic objectives. Requirements of today’s leaders are extensive
but necessary, given the contemporary operating environment (COE) in which they will lead.
1–5. Army Culture and leadership
a. Army culture is a consequence of customs, traditions, ideals, ethos, values, and norms of conduct that have
existed for more than 230 years. DA culture promotes certain norms of conduct, and leaders who manage operations
AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

1

affected by the law of land warfare, require the highest level of individual and organizational discipline and moral
values. The law of land warfare, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, and the standards of conduct structure the
discipline imperative to which leaders must adhere. The moral and ethical tenets of the U.S. Constitution, the
Declaration of Independence, and the Army Values (figure 1–1) characterize the Army’s professionalism and culture,
and describe the ethical standards expected of all Army leaders.

Figure 1–1. Army Values

b. Army culture includes a unique service ethic expected of every Soldier to make personal sacrifices in selfless
service to the nation. Commitment to this ideal is embodied in the Warrior Ethos (figure 1–2). Army leaders develop
and sustain the Warrior Ethos through discipline, realistic training, commitment to the Army Values, and pride in the
Army’s heritage. Soldiers show their commitment to these guiding values and standards by willingly performing their
duty and subordinating their personal welfare without expecting reward or recognition. Everything Soldiers do for the
nation is supported by Army civilians and family members; consequently, Army leaders are committed to developing
values-based leadership and seeing to the well-being of Soldiers and their families. Combined with the Warrior Ethos,
the Soldiers Creed (figure 1–3) and the Civilian Creed (figure 1–4) embody the Army service ethic.

Figure 1–2. Warrior Ethos

Figure 1–3. Soldier’s Creed

2

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

Figure 1–4. Civilian Creed

1–6. Core leader competencies
a. To support the Army’s strategic objective - “Trained and Equipped Soldiers and Developed Leaders” - the Army
has identified core leader competencies that pertain to all levels of leadership - military and civilian. Core leader
competencies are related leader behaviors that lead to successful performance, are common throughout the organization, and are consistent with the organizational mission and values. Core leader competencies support the Executive
core competencies (ECQs) that civilian leaders are expected to master as they advance in their careers.
b. The following core leader competencies are described in more detail in Field Manual (FM) 6–22.
(1) Leads others: Leaders motivate, inspire, and influence others to take the initiative, work toward a common
purpose, accomplish tasks, and achieve organizational objectives.
(2) Extends influence beyond the chain of command: Leaders must extend their influence beyond direct lines of
authority and chains of command. This influence may extend to joint, interagency, intergovernmental, multinational,
and other groups, and helps shape perceptions about the organization.
(3) Leads by example: Leaders are role models for others. They are viewed as the example and must maintain
standards and provide examples of effective behaviors. When Army leaders model the Army Values, they provide
tangible evidence of desired behaviors and reinforce verbal guidance by demonstrating commitment and action.
(4) Communicate: Leaders communicate by expressing ideas and actively listening to others. Effective leaders
understand the nature and power of communication and practice effective communication techniques so they can better
relate to others and translate goals into actions. Communication is essential to all other leadership competencies.
(5) Creates a positive organizational climate: Leaders are responsible for establishing and maintaining positive
expectations and attitudes, which produce the setting for positive attitudes and effective work behaviors.
(6) Prepares self: Leaders are prepared to execute their leadership responsibilities fully. They are aware of their
limitations and strengths and seek to develop and improve their knowledge. Only through preparation for missions and
other challenges, awareness of self and situations, and the practice of lifelong learning and development can individuals
fulfill the responsibilities of leadership.
(7) Develops others: Leaders encourage and support the growth of individuals and teams to facilitate the achievement of organizational goals. Leaders prepare others to assume positions within the organization, ensuring a more
versatile and productive organization.
(8) Gets results: Leaders provide guidance and manage resources and the work environment, thereby ensuring
consistent and ethical task accomplishment.
1–7. Leadership levels
The three levels of leadership are direct, organizational, and strategic; leader competencies apply to all levels. Each
leadership level has requirements that differ in the mix, scope, depth, and breadth related to the core leader competencies. As leaders progress through the levels, their assignments become more complex and interdependent, and
require more responsibility, accountability, and authority. Leaders at each level must be able to address unanticipated
situations, as many may have to make decisions in stressful situations that can easily have strategic or political
implications. Each leadership level is discussed in greater detail in FM 6–22.
a. Direct level leadership is frontline leadership that includes leaders from squad through battalion levels of tactical
units, and from branch through division levels in Table of Distribution and Allowances (TDA) organizations. Direct
leaders build cohesive teams, empower subordinates, and develop and execute plans which implement policies and
accomplish missions. The face-to-face interpersonal leadership required at this level influences human behavior, values,
and ethics. Direct-level leaders must develop and refine their analytical and intuitive decision-making techniques;
communication and interpersonal skills; and be able to operate independently - within the limits of the commander’s

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

3

intent, assigned missions, task organization, and available resources. Direct leaders focus on short-range planning and
mission accomplishment, from 3 months to 1 year or more.
b. Organizational level leadership exists in more complex organizations and includes leaders at brigade through
corps levels, directorate through installation levels (TDA organizations), and assistant through undersecretary of the
Army level. In addition to direct level leader requirements, organizational leaders tailor resources to organizations and
programs, manage multiple priorities, establish long-term vision, and empower others to perform the mission. They
deal with more complexity, more people, greater uncertainty, and a greater number of unintended consequences. Their
influence is exhibited more through policy-making and systems integration than face-to-face contact. Organizational
leaders must be competent in synchronizing systems and organizations and in planning, programming, budgeting, and
execution (PPBE). Their policies influence the command climate, and they must be adept in communication, negotiation, critical reasoning, and interpersonal skills. They must be skilled at complex decision-making and problem solving
and have a good understanding of the entire range of full-spectrum operations. These leaders focus on midrange
planning and mission accomplishment ranging from 1 to 5 years or more.
c. Strategic level leadership exists at the highest levels of the Army and includes military and civilian leaders at
division and corps level through the national level. Strategic leaders set the organizational structure, allocate resources,
and articulate the strategic vision. Strategic leadership involves running the Army; developing strategic plans, policies,
guidance, and laws; determining force structure designs based on future mission requirements and capabilities;
prioritizing over-arching Army programs against competing interests; and articulating Army programs and policies to
the highest levels of DOD and the government. Strategic leaders scan the external environment to maintain focus and
understand the context of future organizational roles. They must be adept in corporate level business management and
prudent managers of taxpayer dollars. They work closely with higher-level leadership and dignitaries, and their
decisions impact the political arena, personnel and resources, and have wide-ranging consequences. In addition to direct
and organizational level responsibilities, strategic leaders must possess knowledge of the force structure change process
and DOD, governmental, and legislative processes. Interpersonal skills must facilitate consensus building, negotiation,
and influence peers and policy makers. Strategic leaders must be adept at complex decision-making, problem solving,
and critical reasoning, and set the example by their words, decisions, and actions. They must convey messages
indicating their professional integrity, priorities, and direction, and that support Army traditions, values, and ethics.
Strategic leaders focus on the long-range vision for their organization ranging from 5 to 20 years or more.
1–8. Leader development
a. Leader development is the deliberate, continuous, sequential, and progressive process, grounded in Army values,
that grows Soldiers and civilians into competent and confident leaders capable of decisive action. Leader development
is achieved through lifelong synthesis of the knowledge, skills, and experiences gained through institutional training
and education, organizational training, operational experience, and self-development. Commanders and other organizational leaders play the key role in leader development that ideally produces competent, confident, and agile leaders who
act with boldness and initiative in dynamic and complex situations.
b. The Army training and leader development model (figure 1–5) identifies important interactions for training
Soldiers and developing leaders. It requires lifelong learning and identifies three developmental domains that shape
critical learning experiences: operational, institutional, and self-development. The model portrays the development of
trained and ready units led by competent and confident leaders, and depicts a continuous cycle of education,
assessment, and feedback. For each domain, specific measurable actions are required and each domain uses assessment
and feedback from various sources to maximize mission readiness and to develop leaders. (See DA Pamphlet (Pam)
350–58 for a detailed discussion of the model.)

4

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

Figure 1–5. Army training and leader development process

(1) Training and leader development domains. The three domains of leader development (institutional training and
education, operational assignments, and self-development) are dynamic and interconnected. The individual gains
knowledge and skills and enhances abilities at the institution and practices them during operational assignments. Selfdevelopment enhances, sustains, and expands the knowledge, skills, and abilities gained from assignments and institutional learning.
(a) Institutional training and education. The Army’s school system provides leaders with the education (how to
think) and training (how to do) needed to perform duty position requirements. The Army’s progressive, sequential, and
parallel education systems that support Army Force Generation (ARFORGEN) will help ensure future leaders are
armed with the knowledge base they will need to succeed in modular formations. Leaders attend institutional training
courses following appropriate career development models.
(b) Operational assignments. Operational assignments translate theory into practice by placing leaders in positions
to apply the knowledge and skills they acquired during institutional training and education. Repetitive performance of
duty position requirements - coupled with self-awareness, assessment, and feedback - refines leader skills, broadens
knowledge, and shapes attitudes and subsequent behavior.
(c) Self-development. Self-development initiatives focus on maximizing leader strengths, reducing weaknesses, and
achieving individual leader development goals. Self-development is a continuous process that takes place during
institutional training and education, and during operational assignments; it should stretch and broaden the individual
beyond the job or training. Another aspect of self-development that helps Army leaders prepare for future responsibilities and grow professional expertise is civilian education or training at universities or colleges.
(2) The Army training and leader development management process was developed and implemented as a means to
recommend improvements to training and leader development policy, strategy, and capabilities needed to provide
trained and ready Soldiers, leaders, and units to combatant commanders. The management process starts with Councils
of Colonels (COC) and culminates with providing recommendations to the Army leadership through the Training and
Leader Development General Officer Steering Committee (for more information, see DA Pam 350–58).
c. All leaders have a responsibility to develop those junior to them to the fullest extent possible. In addition to
institutional training and education, leaders can facilitate development through the knowledge and feedback they
provide through counseling, coaching, and mentoring.
(1) Counseling. Counseling is a standardized tool used to provide feedback to a subordinate. Counseling focuses on
the subordinate by producing a plan outlining actions the subordinate can take to achieve individual and organizational
goals. It is central to leader development and should be part of a comprehensive program for developing subordinates.
A consistent counseling program includes all subordinates, regardless of the level of each ones potential.
(2) Coaching. The original meaning of coaching refers to the function of helping someone through a set of tasks. In
the military, coaching occurs when a leader guides another persons development in new or existing skills during the
practice of those skills. Unlike mentoring or counseling where the mentor/counselor generally has more experience than
the supported person, coaching relies primarily on teaching and guiding to help bring out and enhance current

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

5

capabilities. A coach helps those being coached to understand and appreciate their current level of performance and
their potential, and instructs them on how to reach the next level of knowledge and skill.
(3) Mentorship. Mentorship is the voluntary developmental relationship that exists between a person of greater
experience and a person of lesser experience that is characterized by mutual trust and respect. The focus of mentorship
is voluntary mentoring that extends beyond the scope of chain of command relationships and occurs when a mentor
provides the mentee advice and counsel over a period of time. Effective mentorship will positively impact personal and
professional development. Assessment, feedback, and guidance are critical within the mentoring relationship and
should be valued by the mentee in order for growth and development to occur.
d. As future battlefields evolve into increasingly dynamic and fluid environments, systems that facilitate the
acceleration of leader development are needed. The Army training and leader development model and tools, such as
counseling, coaching, and mentorship, are development multipliers that can enhance and influence maturity, selfawareness, adaptability, and conceptual and team-building skills in all leaders.

Chapter 2
Responsibilities
2–1. General
Every leader will—
a. Set and exemplify the highest ethical and professional standards as embodied in the Army Values.
b. Accomplish the unit mission.
c. Ensure the physical, moral, personal, and professional wellbeing of subordinates.
d. Effectively communicate vision, purpose, and direction.
e. Build cohesive teams and empower subordinates.
f. Teach, coach, and counsel subordinates.
g. Build discipline while inspiring motivation, confidence, enthusiasm, and trust in subordinates.
h. Develop their own and their subordinates’ skills, knowledge, and attitudes.
i. Anticipate and manage change and be able to act quickly and decisively under pressure.
j. Use initiative to assess risk and exploit opportunities.
k. Treat subordinates with dignity, respect, fairness, and consistency.
l. Foster a healthy command climate.
2–2. Secretary of the Army
The Secretary of the Army is the proponent for civilian Executive and Senior Professional (ESP) management, and will
provide policy, program oversight, guidance, and direction for ESPs Army-wide. The Secretary, or his designated
representative, will objectively manage all ESPs to ensure their professional and leadership development needs are met,
and their assignments fully utilize their skills and capabilities.
2–3. Chief of Staff, Army
The Chief of Staff, Army, will provide for general officer leadership, leader development policy, and training.
2–4. Deputy Chief of Staff, G–1
The leadership mission of the DCS, G–1 is to enhance the readiness of the Army by embedding the human dimension
into all leadership and leader development policies (in coordination with the DCS, G–3/5/7), programs, and initiatives
to better enable the Army to meet its objectives in the joint COE. In order to accomplish this mission, the DCS, G–1
will—
a. Exercise general staff supervision and responsibility for developing and promoting Army leadership policies.
b. Serve as the Army Staff (ARSTAF) policy proponent for both military and civilian leadership, to include
oversight of AR 600–100 and AR 600–89.
c. Serve as ARSTAF proponent for the Civilian Creed.
d. Select points of contact to coordinate with and advise the DCS, G–3/5/7 and the Commandant, Command and
General Staff College, regarding leadership and leader development issues.
e. Participate in or support appropriate leadership and leader development conferences.
f. Coordinate and prioritize leadership research with special emphasis on the activities of the U.S. Army Research
Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences (ARI). Approves leadership research conferences that ARI organizes
and conducts with the goal of coordinating research of participating agencies and organizations, and to review findings.
g. Evaluate leadership policies and programs as they affect units and organizations in the field. Approves, schedules,

6

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

and conducts leadership conferences, when appropriate, to integrate and synchronize leadership and leader development
policies, issues, and programs (working with the G–3/5/7).
h. Coordinate with the DCS, G–3/5/7 to ensure leadership and personnel management policies are synchronized with
leader development policies.
i. Serve as point of contact for issues relating to civilian leadership and leader development.
j. Serve as a permanent member of the Leader Development COC and the Training and Leader Development
General Officer Steering Committee.
k. Serve as Headquarters, Department of the Army (HQDA) proponent for Active, Reserve, and civilian mentorship
policies, programs, and initiatives.
l. Serve as HQDA proponent for Army Values.
m. Synchronize programmatic requirements through the PPBES process (G–8, Program Analysis and Evaluation
Directorate; Army Budget Office; G–3/5/7).
2–5. Commanding General, Human Resources Command
The Commanding General, Human Resources Command (HRC) (a field operating agency of the DCS, G–1) will—
a. Ensure professional development programs for Army personnel, including schooling and assignment procedures,
are consistent with Army leadership, leader development, and management policies.
b. Advise and assist the Leader Development Management Process on leader development issues and policies as
required. Specifically, advises the G–1 on issues and policies that pertain to Army manning priorities and assignments
in order to provide the best opportunities for leader development.
c. Advise the DCS, G–1 of the impact of implementation of personnel management policies on leadership policy,
and the DCS, G–3/5/7 on leader development policies.
d. Provide resource support as required to ensure continued core civilian leadership training and leader development
through institutional training.
e. Participate in Army leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences, as appropriate.
f. Provide results or an executive summary of all leader, leadership, and leader development studies to the CAL.
2–6. Director, U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences
The Director, U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences (Under the DCS, G–1) will—
a. Respond to leadership research priorities established by DCS, G–1.
b. Provide general research support to those agencies charged with responsibilities for developing theory, concepts,
doctrine, and policy in the fields of leadership and leader development.
c. Coordinate with other DOD research agencies to review and evaluate research that relates to leadership and
management, as appropriate.
d. Stay abreast of developments in leadership and management theory and practice in other services and civilian
organizations.
e. Organize and participates in Army leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences.
f. Provide results or an executive summary of all leader, leadership, and leader development studies to the CAL.
2–7. Deputy Chief of Staff, G–3/5/7
The DCS, G–3/5/7 is the ARSTAF proponent for training and leader development. The G–3/5/7 leader development
mission is to develop, coordinate, and program combined arms training and leader development strategies-based policy,
programs, and initiatives that will achieve Chief of Staff, Army-directed levels of individual, leader, and unit training
readiness required for the Army to meet national military strategy needs. The DCS, G–3/5/7 will—
a. Exercise general staff responsibility for all policies and matters relating to individual and unit training.
b. Exercise direct responsibility for leader development policy for the Army, to include DA Pam 350–58.
c. Coordinate leader development actions with appropriate ARSTAF agencies and major Army commanders.
d. Work closely with the DCS, G–1, and the Center for Army Leadership to ensure G–1 leadership policy, doctrine,
and programs and G–3/5/7 leader development policy, doctrine, and programs are consistent and complementary.
e. Conduct and participate in Army leader development, leadership, and leadership research conferences, to include
hosting semi-annual Training and Leader Development Councils of Colonels and General Officer Steering Committee
meetings, as well as annual Chief of Staff, Army, Training and Leader Development Council meetings.
f. Manage and provide oversight on all current and future Army Training and Leader Development recommended
actions.
2–8. Commanding General, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command
The Commanding General, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command (CG, TRADOC) will—
a. Develop Army leadership and leader development operational concepts, doctrine, and programs in coordination
with HQDA and based upon Army leadership theory and policies.

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

7

b. Integrate Army leadership and leader development doctrine in all training programs in service schools and
training centers for commissioned and warrant officers, NCOs, and Army civilians at progressive and sequential phases
of career development.
c. Serve as proponent for FM 6–22.
d. Manage all leadership and leader development education and training programs of instruction, to include development and implementation of leadership assessment policy, in TRADOC service schools and training centers.
e. Monitor the development and implementation of Developmental Leadership Assessment training products,
materials, and tools for officer, warrant officer, NCO, and Army civilian leadership training programs.
f. Conduct and participates in leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences.
g. Monitor the integration of leader development requirements into the Cadre Training Course (CTC), Home Station,
and Institutional Training Master Plans.
h. Monitor the integration of lessons learned into all leader development courses.
i. Monitor the development and maintenance of specific proponent career maps under the TRADOC area of
responsibility.
2–9. Commanding General, U.S. Army Accessions Command/Deputy Commanding General, Initial
Military Training
The Commanding General, U.S. Army Accessions Command (USAAC)/Deputy Commanding General, Initial Military
Training (DCG–IMT) (under TRADOC) will—
a. Provide integrated command and control of the recruiting and initial military training for the Army’s officer,
warrant officer, and enlisted forces to meet the Army’s manpower and readiness requirements and standards.
b. Conduct Basic Officer Leader Course pre-commissioning leadership instruction for the U.S. Military Academy
(USMA), Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), Officer Candidate School (OCS), and Warrant Officer Candidate
School (WOCS).
c. Conduct leadership instruction for Junior ROTC and the National Defense Cadet Corps.
d. Establish and provide IMT policy and execution guidance to TRADOC commanders and staff outside the IMT
chain of command. Embeds the Army culture and leadership in all facets of IMT.
e. Establish, and is the approving authority for, the Basic Officer Leader Courses (BOLC) I, II, and III common core
task lists, in coordination with the USMA.
f. Establish accreditation policy and provide guidance and quality assurance for the execution of all officer and
enlisted IMT programs in TRADOC schools (BOLC I, II, and III; and IET); and IMT assessment/assistance visits
policy and guidance for all officer and enlisted IMT installations.
g. Conduct and participate in leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences.
h. Provide results or an executive summary of all leader, leadership, and leader development studies to the CAL.
2–10. Commanding General, Combined Arms Support Command
The Commanding General, Combined Arms Support Command, (CG CASCOM) (under TRADOC) will—
a. Conduct leadership training.
b. Conduct and participate in leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences.
c. Provide results or an executive summary of all leader, leadership, and leader development studies to the CAL.
2–11. Commanding General, Combined Arms Center/Commandant, U.S. Army Command and General
Staff College
The Commanding General, Combined Arms Center (CG, CAC)/Commandant, U.S. Army Command and General Staff
College (ACGSC) (under TRADOC) will—
a. Serve as the TRADOC proponent for Leader Development and Education, Professional Military Education
(officer, warrant officer, NCO, and civilian) and Army doctrine.
b. Provide guidance and support for leadership, leader development, and leadership research conferences.
c. Conduct instruction in leadership and ethics for the Intermediate Level Education (ILE), Pre-Command Course,
Division Commander/Assistant Division Commander Course, and other courses as directed.
d. Coordinate closely with service schools, training centers, the U.S. Army War College (USAWC), Army Management Staff College, U.S. Army Reserve schools, Army National Guard state military academies, and pre-commissioning schools (USMA, ROTC, OCS, and WOCS) to achieve an integrated, progressive, and sequential leadership and
ethics instruction program.
e. Assist in the integration of approved leadership and leader development doctrine into Army-wide programs of
instruction.
f. Establish and maintain close coordination with service schools, the research community, the civilian academic
community, other services, and services of other countries to monitor and evaluate research and studies in ethics and
cohesion.

8

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

g. Develop and provide training support materials on leadership, leader development, leadership assessment, and
ethics to all Army service schools, TRADOC training centers, and other Army organizations.
h. Develop and conduct leadership training for Army civilians at the foundation, basic, intermediate, and advanced
levels, as directed by TRADOC.
i. Monitor the civilian sector for appropriate leadership training services, in coordination with the DCS, G–1, and
DCS, G–3/5/7. Evaluates potential training packages and incorporates them into leadership curricula, as appropriate.
j. Develop programs in accordance with established Army standards that will enhance the communication skills
(reading, writing, and listening) of leaders Army-wide. This is done in coordination with the Office of the Chief of
Public Affairs, TRADOC Commander, and HRC Commander.
k. Participate in leadership, leader development, and leadership research conferences.
l. Serve as proponent for the Battle Command Knowledge System (BCKS).
m. Manage the BCKS Leader Network Integration Cell. This is a series of connected online professional forums that
create a network/platform for professional interactions across the Army. These forums consist of communities of peers
who are linked through online collaboration systems and are dedicated to advancing their profession through knowledge sharing and shared learning. The BCKS Leader Network facilitates peer discussions and professional dialogue by
commanders, leaders, staffs, and NCOs to enable leader development and knowledge generation based on the experiences of other professionals.
n. Provide results or an executive summary of all leader, leadership, and leader development studies to the CAL.
2–12. Director, Center for Army Leadership
The Center for Army Leadership (under CAC/TRADOC) is the CAC lead for leadership and leader development
research, analysis, assessment and evaluation; leadership doctrine; coordination, development and management of
initiatives within the Army Training and Leader Development Management Process; and the integration and synchronization of Professional Military Education (PME) and Civilian Education System (CES) to sustain excellence in
growing Army leaders. The Director, CAL will—
a. Directly support the Commanding General, Combined Arms Center (CG, CAC) in accomplishing all tasks
required in paragraph 2–11 above.
b. Work closely with DCS, G–3/5/7 (DAMO–TRL) and DCS, G–1 (DAPE–HRI) to ensure leadership and leader
development policies, programs, and initiatives are synchronized with current doctrine, concepts, and theories.
c. Facilitate the coordination and integration of research, concepts and doctrine development, training, and evaluation in all areas of leadership, in coordination with DCS, G–1 and DCS, G–3/5/7.
d. Serve as the Army lead for FM 6–22.
e. Establish and maintain close coordination with service schools, the research community, the civilian academic
community, other services, and services of other countries to monitor and evaluate research and studies in leadership,
leader development, and leadership assessment.
f. Review and evaluate leadership education and training curricula in TRADOC service schools and training centers.
Provide assistance to service schools not under TRADOC in the review and evaluation of leadership curricula. Provide
recommendations on requirements for Army leadership instructor education.
g. Evaluate, design, and develop leader development programs and concepts. Conduct research and analysis to
identify and assess leadership and leader development trends, requirements, strategies, technologies, and techniques.
Develops, maintains, and promulgates leadership doctrine.
h. Design, field, and monitor leadership assessment programs and/or tools that contribute to Army leader development in institutional training, operational assignments, and self-development. Maintain liaison and coordinate with
Army agencies that use assessment techniques, to include Cadet Command, USMA, and USAWC.
2–13. Commandant, U.S. Army War College
The Commandant, U.S. Army War College (USAWC) (under TRADOC) will—
a. Conduct instruction in command, leadership, and management for all USAWC resident and nonresident students.
Coordinate with the CAC/ACGSC to ensure this instruction is integrated with, and linked progressively and sequentially to leadership instruction in TRADOC schools.
b. Be responsible for strategic leader development of the Army’s senior leaders.
c. Establish and maintain liaison with DCS, G–1, DCS, G–3/5/7, CAL, ARI, and other agencies as needed to ensure
coordination of leadership research and instructional activities at USAWC with TRADOC leader development programs, leadership instruction in TRADOC schools, development of Army leadership doctrine, and the overall leadership research program.
d. Provide research consultation and other assistance on request.
e. Participate actively in Army leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences.
f. Provide results or an executive summary of all leader, leadership, and leader development studies to the CAL.

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

9

2–14. Superintendent, United States Military Academy
The Superintendent, United States Military Academy (USMA) will—
a. Conduct Basic Officer Leadership Course pre-commissioning leader development and leadership instruction for
the U.S. Corps of Cadets.
b. Establish and maintain liaison with DCS, G–1, DCS, G–3/5/7, TRADOC, CAL, ARI, and other agencies as
needed to ensure coordination of leadership instructional activities at USMA with other pre-commissioning programs,
and with TRADOC leadership instruction.
c. Provide consultation, research, and other assistance in support of other Army leadership agencies, consistent with
available resources and the Academy mission.
d. Participate actively in Army leadership, leader development, and leadership research conferences, and assist CAL
in the development of Army leadership doctrine and training support materials, consistent with available resources and
the Academy mission.
e. Advise CG, TRADOC, on leader development theory, concept, and changing perceptions of the leader development field.
f. Provide results or an executive summary of all leader, leadership, and leader development studies to the CAL.
2–15. Chief of Military History
The Chief of Military History will—
a. Produce historical publications on topics relating to leadership.
b. Conduct historical research, prepare bibliographies, and develop and present narratives and other accounts of
leadership and leader development topics.
c. Develop and assist Army museums in developing historical exhibits on leadership topics.
2–16. The Inspector General
The Inspector General (TIG) will—
a. Extend the eyes, ears, voice, and conscience of the Commander.
b. Assess or investigate alleged violations of the Army’s professional ethic.
c. Assist the commander in teaching and training leaders on the fundamental tenets of the Army ethic.
d. Provide a continuing assessment of the command, operational, managerial, logistical, and administrative effectiveness of the Army.
2–17. The Judge Advocate General
The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) will—
a. As the primary staff assistant to the Army Chief of Staff, perform assigned responsibilities for the Department of
Defense Ethics Program.
b. Maintain the Standards of Conduct Office to manage two critical elements of the ethics program: compliance with
requirements, and support to field commands and ethics counselors.
c. Integrate leadership training in courses of instruction at TJAG Legal Center and School.
2–18. Chief of Chaplains
The Chief of Chaplains will—
a. Provide advice and assistance to Army leaders so they are equipped to fulfill their moral leadership responsibilities for the Army.
b. Address the religious, moral, social, and ethical dimensions of Soldier and civilian actions in war and during
peace through the Commander’s Moral Leadership Training Program.
2–19. The Surgeon General/Commanding General, U.S. Army Medical Command
The Surgeon General/Commanding General, U.S. Army Medical Command (USAMEDCOM) will—
a. Serve as the proponent for Army Medical Department officer professional development and career management.
b. Integrate Army leadership doctrine in all education and training programs of instruction at the U.S. Army Medical
Department Center and School.
c. Develop and manage a developmental leadership assessment program at the U.S. Army Medical Department
Center and School.
d. Participate in Army leadership, leader development, and leadership research conferences, as appropriate.
e. Coordinate with ARI on the leadership and cohesion aspects of medical research, particularly the prevention and
treatment of combat stress and psychiatric casualties. Provide results or an executive summary of all leader, leadership,
and leader development studies to the CAL.
f. Provide research support to the DCS, G–1, upon request.

10

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

2–20. Chief, National Guard Bureau
The Chief, National Guard Bureau (CNGB) will—
a. In conjunction with DCS, G–1, DCS, G–3/5/7, TRADOC, FORSCOM, and Office of the Chief, Army Reserve,
recommend, establish, and promulgate Army policies for leadership training and education, and leader development for
the Army National Guard, Active Guard, and military technician Soldiers.
b. Conduct Soldier training and education and leader development in the Officer Education System (OES), Warrant
Officer Education System (WOES), Noncommissioned Officer Education System (NCOES), and other training programs in TRADOC-accredited The Army School System (TASS) schoolhouses.
2–21. State Adjutants General
State Adjutants General (Commanders, State Area Commands, Army National Guard (ARNG)) will—
a. Conduct leadership training and education in OCS, NCOES and other training programs in state military
academies for military personnel.
b. Conduct leader development in OCS, NCOES and other training programs in state military academies for military
personnel.
2–22. Chief, Army Reserve
The Chief, Army Reserve (CAR) will—
a. In conjunction with DCS, G–1, DCS, G–3/5/7, TRADOC, FORSCOM, and NGB, recommend, establish, and
promulgate Army policies for leadership training, education, and leader development for Individual Mobilization
Augmentees, Active Reserve, and Individual Ready Reserve Soldiers.
b. Conduct leadership training and education, and leader development in OES, NCOES, and other training programs
in TASS.
2–23. Commanders
Commanders will—
a. Ensure unit level leadership training is conducted for assigned Active and Reserve Component forces and Army
civilians, in accordance with AR 350–1.
b. Supervise in-unit leadership training of Individual Ready Reserve and Individual Mobilization Augmentee personnel assigned or attached to Active or Reserve Component units.
c. Participate in leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences, as appropriate.
d. Provide recommendations and feedback concerning leadership and leader development issues and programs to
DCS, G–1, DCS, G–3/5/7, or U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, as appropriate.
e. Ensure compliance at all levels of leadership in accordance with paragraph 2–1 above.

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

11

Appendix A
References
Section I
Required Publications
AR 350–1
Army Training and Leader Development. (Cited in para 2–23a.)
DA Pam 350–58
Leader Development for Americas Army. (Cited in paras 1–8a, 2–7b.)
FM 6–22
Army Leadership - Competent, Confident, and Agile. (Cited in paras 1–7, 2–8c, 2–12d.)
Section II
Related Publications
A related publication is a source of additional information. The user does not have to read it to understand this
publication.
AR 10–7
Organization and Functions: United States Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences
AR 10–87
Army Commands, Army Service Component Commands, and Direct Reporting Units (in final staffing)
AR 600–20
Army Command Policy
AR 600–83
The New Manning System - COHORT Unit Replacement System
AR 600–89
General Douglas MacArthur Leadership Award Program
AR 690–400
Total Army Performance Evaluation System
AR 690–950
Career Management
DA Pam 600–3
Commissioned Officer Professional Development and Career Management
DA Pam 600–4
AMEDD Officer Development and Career Management
DA Pam 600–25
US Army Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development Guide
FM 1
The Army
FM 3
Operations
FM 7–0
Training the Force

12

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

FM 7–1
Battle Focused Training
NGR 10–2
Organizations and Functions: State Area Command, Army National Guard. (Available at http://
www.ngbpdc.ngb.army.mil.)
Section III
Prescribed Forms
No entries in this section.
Section IV
Referenced Forms
No entries in this section.

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

13

Glossary
Section I
Abbreviations
ACGSC
Army Command and General Staff College
AR
Army Regulation
ARFORGEN
Army Force Generation
ARI
Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences
ARNG
Army National Guard
ARSTAF
Army Staff
BCKS
Battle Command Knowledge System (BCKS)
BOLC
Basic Officer Leadership Course
CAC
Combined Arms Command
CAL
Center for Army Leadership
CAR
Chief, Army Reserve
CASCOM
Combined Arms Support Command
CES
Civilian Education System
CG
Commanding General
CNGB
Chief, National Guard Bureau
COC
Council of Colonels
COE
Contemporary Operating Environment
CTC
Cadre Training Course
DCG
Deputy Commanding General

14

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

DCS, G–1
Deputy Chief of Staff, G–1
DCS, G–3/5/7
Deputy Chief of Staff, G–3/5/7
DOD
Department of Defense
ECQ
Executive Core Qualifications
ESP
Executive and Senior Professional
FM
Field Manual
HQDA
Headquarters Department of the Army
HRC
Human Resources Command
IET
Initial Entry Training
ILE
Intermediate Level Education
IMT
Initial Military Training
MSAF
Multi-Source Assessment and Feedback
NCOES
Noncommissioned Officer Education System
NGB
National Guard Bureau
OAA
Office of the Administrative Assistant
OCS
Officer Candidate School
OES
Officer Education System
PAM
Pamphlet
PME
Professional Military Education
PPBE/S
Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution/System

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

15

ROTC
Reserve Officer Training Corps
TASS
The Army School System
TDA
Table of Distribution Allowances
TIG
The Inspector General
TJAG
The Judge Advocate General
TRADOC
Training and Doctrine Command
U.S.
United States
USAAC
U.S. Army Accessions Command
USAMEDCOM
U.S. Army Medical Command
USAWC
United States Army War College
USMA
United States Military Academy
WOCS
Warrant Officer Candidate School
WOES
Warrant Officer Education System
Section II
Terms
Army Values
Army Values are the baseline, core, and foundation of every Soldier. They define all Soldiers: who they are, what they
do, and what they stand for. They drive Soldiers internally (their beliefs) and externally (their actions), at home and
work, in peace and war.
a. Loyalty. Bear true faith and allegiance to the U.S. Constitution, the Army, your unit, and other Soldiers. This
means supporting the military and civilian chain of command, as well as devoting oneself to the welfare of others.
b. Duty . Fulfill your obligations. Duty is the legal and moral obligation to do what should be done without being
told.
c. Respect. Treat people as they should be treated. This is the same as do unto others as you would have done unto
you.
d. Selfless service. Put the welfare of the Nation, the Army, and subordinates before your own. This means putting
the welfare of the Nation and accomplishment of the mission ahead of personal desires.
e. Honor. Live up to all the Army Values. This implies always following your moral compass in any circumstance.
f. Integrity. Do what’s right legally and morally. This is the thread woven through the fabric of the professional
Army ethic. It means honesty, uprightness, the avoidance of deception, and steadfast adherence to standards of
behavior.
g. Personal Courage. Face fear, danger, or adversity (physical or moral). This means being brave under all
circumstances (physical or moral).

16

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

Battle Command Knowledge System
A virtual collaborative network that hosts structured forums for officers and NCOs. The BCKS is a fully integrated,
interoperable network-centric capability that supports training, leader development, battle command and doctrine.
BCKS is broken into five sub-portals that serve as key self-development sources where leaders can connect with peers
to discuss relevant issues, develop solutions, and provide useful tools to others.
Civilian Creed
The Civilian Creed refers to the professional attitudes and beliefs that characterize the Department of Army Civilian
(DAC). At its core, the Civilian Creed requires unrelenting and consistent determination to do what is right and to do it
with pride, both in war and peace. No matter the conditions, it is the DA civilians selfless commitment to the Nation,
the Army, and fellow civilians and Soldiers that keeps them going. It is the professional attitude that inspires every
Department of Army Civilian. (See figure 1–4.)
Climate
The state of morale and level of satisfaction of members of an organization.
Command
Command is the authority that a commander in the military service lawfully exercises over subordinates by virtue of
rank or assignment. Command includes the leadership, authority, responsibility, and accountability for effectively using
available resources and planning the employment of, organizing, directing, coordinating, and controlling military forces
to accomplish assigned missions. It includes responsibility for unit readiness, health, welfare, morale, and discipline of
assigned personnel. Title 10, Section 3583, requires exemplary conduct by all commanding officers and others in
authority in the Army. All commanders are required to—
a. Present themselves as examples of virtue, honor, patriotism, and subordination;
b. Be vigilant in inspecting the conduct of all persons who are placed under their command;
c. Guard against and suppress all dissolute and immoral practices and to correct, according to the laws and
regulations of the Army, all persons who are guilty of them; and
d. Take all necessary and proper measures under the laws, regulations, and customs of the Army to promote and
safeguard the morale, physical wellbeing, and the general welfare of officers and enlisted personnel under their
command or charge.
Culture
The set of long-held values, beliefs, expectations, and practices shared by a group that signifies what is important and
influences how an organization operates.
Developmental Leadership Assessment Training
Training Support Packages that teach leaders to identify and analyze subordinate leader behaviors and how to provide
feedback and developmental counseling.
Doctrine
Fundamental principles by which military forces or elements thereof guide their actions. Doctrine evolves from theory
and concepts based on values, beliefs, historical perspective, experience, and research.
Leader Development
Leader development is the deliberate, continuous, sequential, and progressive process, grounded in Army values, that
grows Soldiers and civilians into competent and confident leaders capable of decisive action. Leader development is
achieved through lifelong synthesis of the knowledge, skills, and experiences gained through institutional training and
education, organizational training, operational experience, and self-development.
Leadership Assessment
A structured process that focuses on developing leaders by using multiple observations and frequent feedback sessions.
Assessment provides information about a leader’s readiness or potential to lead effectively in a particular position or
level within the Army.
Leadership
The process of influencing people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation, while operating to accomplish the
mission and improve the organization.

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

17

Mentorship
A voluntary and developmental relationship that exists between a person with greater experience and a person with less
experience, and which is characterized by mutual trust and respect.
Pentathlete
Pentathletes are multi-skilled, innovative, adaptive, and situationally aware professionals who demonstrate character in
everything that they do, are experts in the profession of arms, personify the warrior ethos in all aspects from war
fighting to statesmanship to enterprise management, and boldly confront uncertainty and solve complex problems.
a. A Pentathlete—
(1) Is a strategic and creative thinker.
(2) Builds leaders and teams.
(3) Is a competent full-spectrum warfighter or accomplished professional who supports the Soldier.
(4) Is effective in managing, leading changing large organizations.
(5) Is skilled in governance, statesmanship, and diplomacy.
(6) Understands cultural context and works effectively across it.
b. Pentathlete attributes are—
(1) To set the standard for integrity character.
(2) To be a confident and competent decision-maker in uncertain situations:
(a) Prudent risk taker.
(b) Innovative.
(c) Adaptive.
(3) Empathetic and always positive.
(4) Professionally educated and dedicated to lifelong learning.
(5) Effective communicator.
Policy
A written communication that initiates or governs action, conduct, or procedures, giving a definite course or method of
action, or that determines present and future decisions. Policy implements, interprets, or prescribes public law and
executive orders and explains the execution of actions, or directives from a higher level; it delegates authority and
assigns responsibility; and it dictates an action to be carried out, a procedure to be followed, a form to be used, or a
report to be submitted.
Self-development
A planned, continuous, lifelong process individual leaders use to enhance their competencies and potential for
progressively more complex and higher-level assignments (see DA PAM 350–58).
Soldiers Creed
The Soldier’s Creed captures the spirit of being a Soldier and the dedication Soldiers feel to something greater than
themselves. It outlines the fundamental obligations of Soldiers to their fellow Soldiers, their unit, and the Army and
extends beyond service as a Soldier to include commitment to family and society (see figure 1–3).
Warrior Ethos
The Warrior Ethos is embedded in the Soldier’s Creed and is the very essence of what it means to be a Soldier. The
Warrior Ethos describes the frame of mind of the professional Soldier and proclaims a Soldiers selfless commitment to
the Nation, mission, unit, and fellow Soldiers. When internalized, it produces the will to win. (See figure 1–2.)
Section III
Special Abbreviations and Terms
There are no entries in this section.

18

AR 600–100 • 8 March 2007

UNCLASSIFIED

PIN 059983–000

USAPD
ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING SYSTEM
OneCol FORMATTER WIN32 Version 236
PIN:
DATE:
TIME:
PAGES SET:

059983–000
03-12-07
15:58:23
22

DATA FILE:
DOCUMENT:

C:\Wincomp\r600-100.fil
AR 600–100

SECURITY:
UNCLASSIFIED
DOC STATUS: REVISION

