Army Regulation 600-100 p«rsonnel-General Army Leadership of the Army Vjashlngton, DC 2f May 1W6 Pentagon Library ATTN: Military Documents Sec Room 1A518, Pentagoi Washington. DC 20310^5050 AR 600-100 QlCHANGE Army Leadership This regulation— o Establishes Army Leadership policies (para 1-4). o Provides broad parameters, direction, and general guidance for research, concept and doctrine development, training, and evaluation in all areas pertaining to leadership (chaps 1 and 2). o Establishes responsibilities for all aspects of leadership policy, doctrine, training, and research (chap 2). Headquarter* Army Regulation 600-100 Department of ttte Army Washington, DC 27 May 1986 Effective 25 June 1086 Personnel—General Army Leadership This UPDATE printing publishes a new regula- By Order o( the Secretary o) the Army: tion which is effective 25 June 1986. JOHN A- WICKHAM. JR. General, United States Army Chief of Staff Official: R L. DILWORTH Brigadier General, United States Army The Adjutant General Summary. This regulation establishes Ar- Supplementation. Supplementation of (Recommended changes to Publications and my leadership policies that are the basis for this regulation and establishment of forms B l a n k Forms) d i r e c t l y t o H Q D A leadership doctrine and training and leader other than DA forms are prohibited without (DAPE-HRL-L), WASH DC 20310-0300. development. It sets forth responsibilities prior approval from HQDA (DAPE-HRL), Distribution. Distribution of this issue has for all aspects of leadership policy, doctrine, WASH DC 20310-0300. been made in accordance with DA Form training, and research. Interim changes. Interim changes to this 12-9A-R requirements for 600 series publi- Applicability. This regulation applies to regulation are not official unless they are au- cations. The number of copies distributed to the Active Army, the Army National thenticated by The Adjutant General. Users a given subscriber is the number of copies Guard, the U.S. Army Reserve, and De- will destroy interim changes on their expira- requested in Block 382 of the subscriber's partment of the Army Civilians. tion dates unless sooner superseded or re- DA Form 12-9A-R. AR 600-100 distribu- scinded. tion is A for Active Army, ARNG, and Impact on New Manning System. This USAR. Future distribution of this publica- regulation docs not contain information that Suggested Improvements. The propo- tion will remain the same unless the Publi- affects the New Manning System. nent agency of this regulation is the Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel. cations Account Officer adjusts the Internal control systems. This regula- Users are invited to send comments and quantities using the enclosed subscription tion is not subject to the requirements of card. suggested improvements on DA Form 2028 AR 11-2. It does not contain internal con- trol provisions. Contents (Listed by paragraph number) Commandant, U.S. Army War College State adjutants general (commanders, State (USAWC) • 2-7 area commands, Army National Guard Chapter 1 Chief of Military History • 2-8 (ARNG)) • 2-19 Introduction Major Army Command (MACOM) Purpose • 1-1 commanders • 2-9 Appendix A. Related Publications References • 1-2 Commanding General, U.S. Army Forces Glossary Explanation of abbreviations and Command (CG, FORSCOM) • 2-10 terms • 1-3 Commanding General, U.S. Army Training Policy • 1-4 and Doctrine Command (CG, TRADOC) • 2-11 Chapter 2 Director, Center for Army Leadership Responsibilities (CAL), U.S. Army Command and General • 2-1 General Staff College Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel (USACGSC) • 2-12 (DCSPER) • 2-2 Director of Civilian Personnel (DCP), Commandant, U.S. Army Sergeants Major Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Academy (USASMA.) • 2-13 Personnel (ODCSPER) • 2-3 Commanding General, U.S. Army Health Commander, U.S. Army Research Institute Services Command (CO, for the Behavioral and Social Sciences USAHSQ • 2-14 (ARI) • 2-4 Director, Walter Reed Army Institute for Commanding General, U.S. Army Military Research (WRAIR) • 2-15 Personnel Center (CG. Superintendent, United States Military MILPERCEN) • 2-5 Academy (USMA) • 2-16 Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and Chief of Chaplains • 2-17 Plans (DCSOPS) • 2-6 Chief, Army Reserve (CAR) • 2-18 27 MAY 1986 UPDATE • AR 600-100 RESERVED 27 MAY 1986 UPDATE • AR 600-100 Chapter 1 develop an understanding of and commit- values such as loyalty to the unit and self- Introduction ment to a set of professional values—the less service. Leaders at the direct level have Professional Army Ethic. the most face-to-face contact with soldiers 1-1. Purpose c. The guidance, education system, and and therefore affect values personally. By This regulation— necessary resources will be provided to sus- their example, they have the most impact a. Establishes leadership policies for the tain a systematic, career-long leader devel- on the operating values of their subordi- Army. opment program for all commissioned and nates. The values they demonstrate in their 6. Provides broad parameters, direction, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers, actions also have a major effect on deter- and general guidance for research, concept and Army civilians. mining the operating values of their units and doctrine development, training, and and organizations. evaluation in all areas pertaining to leadership. 2-2. Deputy Chief of Staff for c. Establishes responsibilities for all as- Chapter 2 Personnel (DCSPER) pects of leadership policy, doctrine, train- Responsibilities The DCSPER— ing, and research. a. Has general staff supervision and re- 2-1. General sponsibility for developing and promulgat- 1-2. References o. Leadership is the responsibility of eve- ing broad Army leadership and leader Related publications are listed in appendix ry soldier and Army.civilian. Each soldier development policies. or civilian is personally responsible for seek- b. Has general staff responsibility for A. ing self-development and leadership oppor- precommissioning leadership training (Unit- tunities. All leaders are responsible for— ed States Military Academy (USMA), Re- 1-3. Explanation of abbreviations and serve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), terms (1) The d e v e l o p m e n t of t h e i r Officer Candidate School (OCS), and Na- Abbreviations and special terms used in this subordinates. tional Defense Cadet Corps (NDCQ). regulation are explained in the glossary. (2) Giving subordinates the opportunity c. Reviews implementation of personnel to apply leadership skills. management systems to ensure compliance 1-4. Policy (3) Further developing these skills in the with leader development policies and to a. Leadership doctrine and training and performance of unit missions. identify consequences of these systems that leader development will be based on opera- b. AU Army leaders have a responsibility negatively influence leader development or tional doctrine discussed in FM 100-5, Op- for instilling in subordinates those values the growth of the Professional Army Ethic. erations, and fully integrated with that that comprise the Professional Army Ethic; d. Establishes research priorities in the doctrine. Leadership doctrine will be based however, all leaders do not have identical area of leadership for the U.S. Array Re- on an approach to leadership that— responsibilities for values. Responsibilities search Institute for the Behavioral and So- (1) Recognizes three levels of leadership. at the three levels are discussed below. cial Sciences (ARI). (2) Recognizes that responsibilities differ (1) Executive-level leaders. Executive at each level, requiring different skills and leaders are responsible for developing and 2-3. Director of Civilian Personnel knowledge. Differences in the levels of lead- articulating Army values and the Profes- (DCP). Office of the Deputy Chief of ership are discussed below. sional Army Ethic. These general officers Staff for Personnel (ODCSPER) (a) The direct level of leadership. This and senior civilians establish, defend, and The DCP will act as the principal staff assis- level applies to those leaders functioning at enforce Army values and determine the Ar- tant and advisor to the DCSPER in all mat- the tactical level of war-fighting. Leadership my's culture. They oversee how the Army ters involving civilian leadership policy. at this level involves primarily those leader- functions. They affect all those below them ship skills which relate to direct, face-to- by demonstrating their commitment to Ar- 2-4. Commander, U.S. Army Research facc leadership. A knowledge of and exper- my values, by formulating policies that sup- Institute for the Behavioral and Social tise with this type of leadership is incum- port and sustain those values, and by Sciences (ARI) bent on all Army leaders. ensuring thai procedures developed at iower The Commander, ARI will— (b) The senior level of leadership. This levels support both policy and values. a. Provide general research support to level applies to leaders functioning at the (2) Senior-level leaders. At this level, those agencies charged with responsibility operational level of war-fighting. No partic- leaders influence values by establishing and for leadership policy, doctrine, and concept ular echelon of command is solely or maintaining the climate of the unit and by development. uniquely concerned with the operational art, establishing sound organizational policies b. Respond to leadership research priori- but leadership at this level deals with more and practices. The organization's climate is ties established by ODCSPER. complex organizations and relationships the sum of its philosophy and procedures c. Coordinate with other Army research than required at the direct level. Senior for developing and using its human re- agencies to review and evaluate, as appro- leadership requires understanding of organi- sources and its dominant leadership prac- priate, research which relates to leadership. zational structure and climate to enhance tices. The organization's climate has a d. Stay abreast of developments in lead- direct leadership. profound effect on how it functions. Senior ership theory and practice in other Services (c) The executive level of leadership. This leaders affect their organizations' climates and civilian organizations. level applies to those leaders functioning through their actions and especially by the primarily at the strategic level of war-fight- policies they establish. These policies have a 2-5. Commanding General, U.S. Army ing. Leadership at this level requires con- great effect on operating values. Military Personnel Center (CG, ceptual and integrative skills beyond those (3) Direct-level leaders. These leaders MILPERCEN) required at lower levels. Executive leader- have different responsibilities than the lead- The CG, MILPERCEN will— ship is concerned with the creation of orga- ers at the other two levels. At this level of a. Ensure professional development pro- nizational structures needed to deal with small-unit leadership, leaders affect values grams for Army personnel, including future requirements. and behavior directly by establishing day-to- schooling and assignment procedures, are b. An integrated, progressive, and se- day procedures and working norms and by consistent with Army leader development quential program of leadership training and building cohesion. Values are affected by policies. education will be implemented in the Army procedures because of the inherent values b. Advise and assist the Commanding school system and in Army units and orga- that these procedures embody. By building General, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine nizations. The program will promote the ac- teamwork, pride, and cohesion in their Command (CG. TRADOC) on leader de- quisition of leader skills and knowledge and units, direct leaders can strengthen positive velopment as requested. 27 MAY 1986 UPDATE • AR 600-100 c. Advise the DCSPER on probable con- assigned or attached to AC or USAR units (USMA, ROTC, OCS) to achieve an inte- sequences of implementation of personnel for annual training or active duty for grated, progressive, and sequential leader- m a n a g e m e n t s y s t e m s on l e a d e r training. ship instruction program. development / Assist in the integration of approved 2-10. Commanding General, U.S. leadership doctrine into programs of in- ^ 2-6. Deputy Chief of Staff for Army Forces Command (CG, struction Army-wide. ^B Operations and Plans (DCSOPS) FORSCOM) g. Serve as the integrator of research in ^W TheDCSOPS— The CG, FORSCOM will establish training leadership and ethics. Identify, evaluate, in- a Has genera] staff responsibility for all criteria, and supervise and evaluate leader- terpret, and disseminate research and study policies and matters relating to individual ship training of the Army National Guard findings in areas pertaining to leadership and unit training. (ARNG) in the continental United States and ethics. b. Coordinates with the DCSPER to en- (CONUS). h. Establish and maintain close coordina- sure leadership training policies are consis- tion with service schools, the academic tent with leadership and leader development 2-11. Commanding General, U.S. community, and the other Services to moni- policies. Army Training and Doctrine Command tor and evaluate research and studies in (CG, TRADOC) leadership and ethics. 2-7. Commandant, U.S. Army War The CG, TRADOC will— i. Prepare leadership training programs College (USAWC) a. Develop Array leadership operationaJ of instruction for use in Army schools The Commandant, USAWC will— concept and doctrine. under TRADOC. Develop and provide in- a. Conduct instruction in command, b. Coordinate with the DCSPER to en- structional materials on leadership to Army management, leadership, and leader devel- sure leadership concept and doctrine are service schools and training centers under opment for all USAWC resident and non- consistent with leadership and leader devel- TRADOC and to Array units. Provide as- resident students that Is linked sequentially opmenl policies. sistance with instructional materials to ser- and progressively to leadership instruction c. Integrate Army leadership doctrine in vice schools not under TRADOC (The in TRADOC schools. all education and training programs of in- Judge Advocate General's School, U.S. Ar- b. Develop and manage a self-assessment struction in service schools and training my Academy of Health Sciences, USAWC, program to provide USAWC resident and centers to prepare commissioned and war- and USMA) as requested. non-resident students with assistance in per- rant officers, noncommissioned officers, and j. Review and assess leadership education sonal and professional development. Army civilians for leadership responsibili- and training curricula in TRADOC service c. Assist the DCSPER in the training ties at successive phases of career schools and training centers. Provide assis- and professional development of general of- development. tance in the review and assessment of lead- ficers through the provision of tailored in- d. Manage all leadership education and ership education and training curricula to struction, coordination for access to t r a i n i n g programs of instruction in service schools not under TRADOC as wargaming and simulations relating to fol- TRADOC service schools and training requested. low-on assignments, and advice on curricu- centers. k. Provide recommendations, as request- ~ la, educational objectives, and study e. Develop and manage self-assessment ed, on requirements for Army leadership in- fl materials. programs at appropriate service schools to structor education. iflj d. Establish and maintain liaison with provide officers, noncommissioned officers, I Conduct, as required, leadership work- the ODCSPER, the Center for Army Lead- and Array civilians with assistance in per- shops or courses for leadership instructors ership (CAL), ARI, and other agencies, as sonal and professional development. (ROTC, USAR, and so forth). needed, to ensure coordination of instruc- / Conduct prccommissioning leadership m. Conduct, as required, an annual Ar- tional activities at USAWC with the instruction for ROTC, OCS, and NDCC. my Leadership Conference. TRADOC program of leadership instruc- g. Develop and conduct leadership train- tion and the development of Army leader- ing for Army civilians. n. Conduct instruction in leadership and ship doctrine. ethics for USACGSC, the Pre-Coramand e. Provide consultation and other assis- Course, and other courses as directed. 2-12. Director, Center for Army tance in support of research as requested. Leadership (CAL), U.S. Army / Participate actively in Army leadership 2-13. Commandant, U.S. Army Command and General Staff College conferences. (USACGSC) Sergeants Major Academy (USASMA) The Director, CAL will— The Commandant, USASMA will— 2-8. Chief of Military History a. Act as the principal assistant and advi- o. Conduct leadership instruction for the The Chief of Military History will— sor to the CG, TRADOC on all matters re- USASMA course and other courses as a. Provide historical publications on top- lating to leadership concept development, directed. ics bearing on leadership. doctrine, training, and research. b. Provide consultation on the Noncom- b. Conduct historical research, prepare b. Serve as the Army-wide focal point for missioned Officer Education System bibliographies, and develop and present nar- the development, integration, and review of (NCOES) to Array leadership agencies and rative and other accounts on leadership concepts and doctrine in matters pertaining develop leadership training support materi- topics. to leadership and ethics. als for noncommissioned officers in coordi- c. Develop and assist Army museums in c. Coordinate the efforts of all Army nation with CAL, developing historical exhibits on leadership agencies and elements involved in Army c. Provide recommendations, as request- topics. leadership research, concept and doctrine ed, regarding noncommissioned officer lead- development, training, and evaluation to en- ership training. 2-9. Major Army command (MACOM) sure an integrated, progressive, and sequen- commanders tial Army leadership program. 2-14. Commanding General, U.S. MACOM commanders will— d. Prepare and maintain all doctrinal Army Health Services Command (CG, a. Conduct in-unit leadership training for literature on leadership and ethics for the USAHSC) A assigned Active Component (AC) and U.S. Army. The CO, USAHSC will— |J Army Reserve (USAR) forces and Army e. Maintain liaison and close coordina- a. Integrate Army leadership doctrine in civilians. tion with service schools, training centers, all education and training programs of in- b. Supervise in-unit leadership training of USAWC, USAR, ARNG state military struction at the U.S. Army Academy of Individual Ready Reserve (1KR) personnel academies, and precommiuioniDg schools Health Sciences to prepare commissioned 27 MAY 1986 UPDATE • AR 600-100 and warrant officers, noncommissioned of- ficers, and Army civilians for leadership re- sponsibilities at all successive phases of career development. 6. Develop and manage self-assessment programs at the U.S. Army Academy of Health Sciences to provide officers, noncom- missioned officers, and Army civilians with assistance in personal and professional development. 2-15. Director, Walter Reed Army Institute for Research (WRAIR) The Director, WRAIR will coordinate with ARI on leadership aspects of medical re- search on psychiatric casualties, particularly the prevention and treatment of battle stress. 2-16. Superintendent, United States Military Academy (USMA) The Superintendent, USMA will— a. Conduct precommissiomng leadership instruction for the U.S. Corps of Cadets. 6. Establish and maintain liaison with ODCSPER, CAL, ARI, and other agencies, as needed, to ensure coordination of leader- ship instructional activities at USMA with other precommissiomng programs and with TRADOC leadership instruction. c. Provide consultation, research, and other assistance in support of other Army leadership agencies, as requested, consistent with available resources and the Academy's mission. Will participate actively in Army leadership conferences and assist CAL in the development of Army leadership doc- trine and training support materials. 2-17. Chief of Chaplains The Chief of Chaplains will— a. Provide spiritual, religious, and moral leadership for the Army. b. Address the moral, social, ethical, and spiritual dimensions of soldiers' actions in war and peace through the commander's Moral Leadership Training Program. 2-18. Chief, Army Reserve (CAR) The CAR will coordinate with ODCSPER and the Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and Plans (ODCSOPS) and recommend, establish, and promulgate Ar- my policies for leadership training for USAR troop program units, unit members, and members of the IRR. 2-19. State adjutants general (commanders, State area commands, Army National Guard (ARNG)) These officials will conduct leadership in- struction in OCS, NCOES, and other train- ing programs in state military academies for ARNG personnel. 27 MAY 1986 UPDATE • AR 600-100 Appendix A Related Publications A related publication is merety a source of addttonal Information. The user does not have to reed it to understand this regulation. AR 10-5 Organization and Functions: Department of the Army. AR 10-7 Organization and Functions: United States Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences. AR 10-17 Organization and Functions: United States Army Military Personnel Center. AR 10-41 Organization and Functions: U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command. AR 10-42 Organization and Functions: U.S. Army Forces Command. DA Pam 600-50 White Paper 1985—Leadership Makes the Difference. FM 22-100 Military Leadership. FM 100-1 The Army. FM 100-5 Operations. NCR 10-2 Organizations and Functions: State Area Command, Army National Guard. 27 MAY 1986 UPDATE • AR 600-100 Glossary TRADOC Policy U.S. A r m y Training and D o c t r i n e A broad guide or principle used by an or- Command ganization to select a definite course or Section I method of action or to guide and determine Abbreviation* USACGSC present and future decisions. Policy sets the U.S. Army Command and General Staff context for what an organization is to College accomplish. AC Active Component USAHSC The Professional Array Ethic U.S. Army Health Services Command A statement of those institutional values ARI and principles of conduct that provide the U.S. Army Research Institute for the Beha- USAR moral framework within which military ac- vior and Social Sciences U.S. Army Reserve tion takes place. The Professional Army Ethic consists of four fundamental and en- ARNG USASMA during values: loyalty, duty, selfless sen-ice, Army National Guard U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy and integrity. Additional information on the Professional Army Ethic is included in FM CAL USAWC 100-1. Center for Army Leadership U.S. Army War College CAR USMA Chief, Army Reserve United States Military Academy WRAIR CONUS Walter Reed Army Institute for Research continental United States Section II DCP Terms Director of Civilian Personnel Concept derelopment DCSOPS The setting forth of an idea or notion ex- Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and pressing how something might be done or Plans accomplished. Concept development is based on policy but precedes the develop- DCSPER ment of doctrine. Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel Doctrine FORSCOM Fundamental principles by which military U.S. Army Forces Command forces or elements thereof guide their ac- tions. Doctrine is how an organization ac- IRR complishes tasks and operations. Doctrine evolves from research, concept develop- Individual Ready Reserve ment, historical experience, and practical application. Organizations establish policy MACOM and develop doctrine within the broad pa- major Army command rameters and guidance provided by policy. MILPERCEN Leader development U.S. Army Military Personnel Center The process of developing or promoting the growth of leaders. Leader development in- NCOES cludes the assignment, education, and train- Noncommissioned Officer Education ing of leaders and should be an integrated, System progressive, and sequential process. Leader development occurs both in Army schools NDCC and in units and organizations. National Defense Cadet Corps Leadership OCS The process by which an individual deter- Officer Candidate School mines direction and influences others to ac- complish the mission of the organization. Leadership includes setting and defining ODCSOPS goals and giving purpose to the organiza- Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Oper- tion. This definition focuses on the desired ations and Plans outcome of leadership as the accomplish- ment of the organization's mission. It recog- ODCSPER nizes that leadership can be displayed by Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for anyone, whether or not he or she is the or- Personnel ganizationally appointed leader. It also rec- ognizes the leader as the key person who ROTC provides the linkage between the unit and Reserve Officer's Training Corps the next larger organization. 27 MAY 1986 UPDATE • AR 600-100 f RESERVED d "U.S. GQVERNIIE1»T PRINTING OPFICEt 1986- U90-999ilt025? 27 MAY 1986 UPDATE • AR 600-100 H. .——- * ** ........A r~" n I Place in envelope and mail to... 3 ^. Army UPDATE Publications <£ 800 West Church Road < Fill out Detach v^_ Mechanrcsburg, PA 17055-3198 Instructions for completing the subscription card in this volume. Army UPDATE Publications Subscription Card PART 1: This section is for internal use within your unit. AR 600-100________________________, PART 1. FOR COMPLETION BY USER OF PUBLICATION PART 2: Record copy requirements for your section. Pass card to unit Publication Account Number publication clerk for consolidation of total subscription (Insert 5-digit account number. The first requirement. block will be a letter and each succeeding block will be a number.) If you do not Name of section. Number of copies desired have an established account and wish to for section use. open one, complete DA Form 12 Quantity Required (Insert total number of copies your unit PART 2. FOR COMPLETION BY UNIT PUBLICATION CLERK requires.) Use one of these cards to consolidate all section requirements into one unit subscription, then mail immediately. Name/Address of Unit (Insert full name, address, and zip code PUB LICATION ACCOUNT NO as it appears on the labels that you receive on mailings from the Baltimore I I — Publications Clerk. These blocks FORM BLOCK QUANTITY AG Publications Center.) NUMBER NUMBER REQUIRED MUST ^^•^•••M be 12-14 0995 — filled Subscription Information: Valid account in. holders must submit the enclosed subscrip- tion card if they want to either increase Unit Name and Add rets or decrease their present quantity. Resuppty: Limited copies of this UPDATE publication are available from the Baltimore Publications Center. Complete DA Form 4569, USAAGPC Requisition Code Sheet accordingly. DA FORM 12 13, F E B R U A R Y 1985 8H8SOLOOO M MTA88N UBfUWY 0001058148
