( /t
x-

iAAP

T W*
9

&C 6 /0

4

Army Regulation 600-100

Personnel-General

Army Leadership

Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC
17 September 1993

UNCLASSIFIED

SUMMA RY of CHANGE
AR 600-100
Army Leadership
This revision-o

Describes three levels of leadership, the Army ethic and individual values
(paras 1-7 and 1-8).

o

Explains how the Leader Development Support System works (para 1-9).

o

Clarifies responsibilities for leadership and leader development policies
(chap 2) .

Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC
17 September 1993

Army Regulation 600-100
Effective 17 October 1993

Personnel-General

Army Leadership
Applicability. This regulation applies to the
Active Army, the Army National Guard, the
U.S. Army Reserve, and Department of the
Army civilians.

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:
GORDON R.SULUVAN
General, United StatesArmy
Chief of Staff

Proponent and exceptions authority.
The proponent of this regulation is the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel (DCSPER).
The DCSPER has the authority to approve
exceptions to this regulation that are consistent with controlling law and regulation. The
DCSPER may delegate this authority, in
writing, to a division chief within the proponent agency in the grade of colonel or the civilian equivalent.

Official:

4;( 5f~

444
11.
MILTON H.HAMILTON
AdministrativeAssistantto the
Secretary of the Army

History. This UPDATE printing publishes a
revision of this publication. Because the
publication has been extensively revised, the
changed portions have not been highlighted.

Internal control systems. This regulation
is not subject to the requirements of AR
11-2. It does not contain internal control
provisions.

Summary. This regulation establishes Army
leadership policy that is the basis for leadership and leader development doctrine and
training. It sets forth responsibilities for all
aspects of leadership and leader development
policy, doctrine, training, and research.

Supplementation. Supplementation of this
regulation is prohibited without prior approval from HQDA (DAPE-HR-L),
WASH DC 20310-0300.

Interim changes. Interim changes to this
regulation are not official unless they are authenticated by The Administrative Assistant
to the Secretary of the Army. Users will destroy interim changes on their expiration
dates unless sooner superseded or rescinded.
Suggested improvements. Users are invited to send comments and suggested improvements on DA Form 2028 (Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank
Forms) directly to Human Resources Directorate, ATTN: DAPE-HR-L, Deputy Chief
of Staff for Personnel, WASH DC
20310-0300.
Distribution. Distribution of this publication is made in accordance with DA Form
12-09-E, Block 2220, intended for command
levels A, B, C, D, E for Active Army, the
Army National Guard and the U.S. Army
Reserve.

-

---

Contents (Listed by paragraph and page number)

Chapter 1
General, page 1
Purpose * 1-1, page 1
References * 1-2, page 1
Explanation of abbreviations and terms * 1-3, page 1
Definitions * 1-4, -page1
Policy * 1-5, page 1
Framework * 1-6, page 1
Levels of leadership * 1-7, page 1
Values * 1-8, page I
Leader Development * 1-9, page 2
Chapter 2
Responsibilities, page 2
General * 2-1, page 2
Chief of Staff, Army- * 2-2, page 2
The Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)- * 2-3, page 2
Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel (DCSPER) will-- 2-4,
page 3
Director, U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences (ARI) will-- 2-5, page 3
Commanding General, U.S. Total Army Personnel Command (CG,
PERSCOM) will-- 2-6, page 3
Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and Plans (DCSOPS)
will2-7, page 3

-

I

Director of Management (DM), Office of the Chief of Staff, Army
(OCSA) will-- 2-8, page 3
The Inspector General (TIG), as the confidential representative of
the commander, will, at the commander's direction-- 2-9,
page 3
The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) will-- 2-10, page 3
Chief of Military History will-- 2-11, page 3
Major Army Command (MACOM) commanders will-- 2-12,
page 3
Commanding General, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command (CG, TRADOC) will-- 2-13, page 4
Commanding General, Combined Arms Command (CG, CAC)
will-- 2-14, page 4
Deputy Commandant, U.S. Army Command and General Staff College (DC, USACGSC) will-- 2-15, page 4
Commandant, U.S. Army War College (USAWC) will-- 2-16,
page 4
Commandant, U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy (USASMA)
will-- 2-17, page 5
Commandant, U.S. Army Management Staff College (AMSC)
will-- 2-18, page 5
Commanding General, U.S. Army Health Services Command (CG,
USAHSC) will-- 2-19, page 5
Commandant, U.S. Army Warrant Officer Career Center (PROV)
(USAWOCC) will-- 2-20, page 5
Director, Walter Reed Army Institute for Research (WRAIR)
will-- 2-21, page 5
Superintendent, United States Military Academy (USMA)
will-- 2-22, page 5

-AR 600-100* 17 September 1993

UNCLASSIFIED

--

Contents--Continued
Chief of Chaplains will-

"

2-23, page 5

Chief, National Guard Bureau (CNGB), will- " 2-24, page 5
State Adjutants General (Commanders, State Area Commands,
Army National Guard [ARNG]) will- * 2-25, page 5
Chief, Army Reserve (CAR) will- " 2-26, page 5

Appendixes
A.

References, page 6

Glossary
Index

AR 600-100.17 September 1993

Chapter 1
General
1-1. Purpose
This regulationa. Establishes Total Army policy for leadership by assigning and
synchronizing responsibilities for management of leadership and
leader development policy.
b. Provides direction and guidance for research, doctrine development, leadership assessment, training and evaluation in all areas
pertaining to Army leadership and leader development.
1-2. References
Required and related publications and prescribed and referenced
forms are listed in the appendix A;
1-3. Explanation of abbreviations and terms
Abbreviations and special terms used in this regulation are explained in the glossary.
1-4. Definitions
a. Leadership is the process of influencing others to accomplish
the mission by providing purpose, direction, and motivation. Effective leadership transforms human potential into effective performance.
b. Management is the process of acquiring, assigning priorities
to, allocating, and using resources (people, money, materiel, facilities, information, time, etc.) in an effective and efficient manner.
c. Leader development is a process. It is the preparation of military and civilian leaders, through a progressive and sequential system of institutional training, operational assignments, and self-development, to assume leader positions and exploit the full potential
of present and future doctrine.
d. Command is the legal authority vested in an individual appointed to a position in the chain of command. Command carries
with it special powers of responsibility and accountability which are
associated with the position.
1-5. Policy
a. In an era when technological advantages have narrowed, and
access to information of all kinds is relatively limitless, the most effective and efficient way for the Army to maintain its competitive
edge is by enhancing the effectiveness of people and organizations.
Good leadership can facilitate this goal.
b. Whether preparing for a war, fighting a war, or supporting a
war, leadership skills, knowledge and attitudes must be consistent
with the warfighting doctrine of the U.S. Army.
1-6. Framework
Total Army leadership policy recognizes thata. Each organizational level of the Army requires a different mix
of leadership skills, knowledge, attitudes (SKA) and experience.
Leadership at the lower levels is direct, face-to-face, and relatively
short term in outlook. As leaders ascend the organizational ladder,
leadership tasks become more complex and sophisticated. Senior
leaders have responsibility for large organizations or systems. They
exercise leadership indirectly through staffs and subordinate leaders, and they look deeper into the future than at the lower levels. As
leaders move into the most complex and highest levels of the Army,
or become involved in the strategic arena, the ability to conceptualize and integrate becomes increasingly important. Leaders at this
level focus on establishing the fundamental conditions for operations to deter wars, fight wars, or conduct operations other than
war. They also create organizational structures needed to deal with
future requirements. Leaders at this level have the longest outlook
in time.
b. Leadership skills needed at successively higher levels in the
Army build on those learned at previous levels. As military and civilian leaders progress within the Army, they serve in more complex

and interdependent organizations, have increased personal responsibility and authority, and have significantly different skills, knowledge and attitude (SKA) than their subordinates. These SKA requirements build on those learned at previous levels. Before
advancing from one level to the next, leaders must acquire the leadership skills, knowledge and attitudes needed at the higher level.
1-7. Levels of leadership
Total Army leadership policy recognizes three interrelated levels of
leadership requirements: direct, senior and strategic. These levels
vary in scope and character, and require differing mixes of leadership skills.
a. The direct level is the front-line or first level of leadership.
This level includes leaders from the squad through battalion levels
of tactical units, and from branch through division level in Table of
Distribution and Allowances (TDA) organizations. Leadership at
this level consists of the skills, knowledge and attitudes which relate
to face-to-face, interpersonal leadership that influences human behavior and values. Direct leaders build cohesive teams and empower subordinates. Skills required for effective leadership at this
level include technical and tactical competence on individual soldier
and leader tasks, problem solving, interpersonal skills, performance
counseling, team building, and developing and executing plans that
implement policies and accomplish missions. Direct leaders focus
on short-range planning and mission accomplishment ranging from
three months to one year, or more.
b. Senior level leadership exists in more complex organizations.
This level includes military and civilian leaders at the brigade
through corps levels in tactical units, and directorate through installation level in TDA organizations. Senior leaders tailor resources to
organizations and programs and set command climate. Skills required for effective leadership at this level include technical and tactical competence on synchronizing systems and organizations, sophisticated problem solving, interpersonal skills (emphasizing
listening, reading, and influencing others indirectly through writing
and speaking), shaping organizational structure and directing operations of complex systems, tailoring resources to organizations or
programs, and establishing policies that foster a healthy command
climate. Senior leaders focus on mid-range planning and mission
accomplishment ranging from one to five years, or more.
c. The strategic level of leadership exists at the highest levels
throughout the Army. This level includes military and civilian leaders at Field Army through national levels. Strategic leaders establish structure, allocate resources and articulate strategic vision.
Skills required for effective leadership at this level include technical
competence on force structure and integration, unified, joint, combined, and interagency operations, resource allocation, and management of complex systems; conceptual competence in creating policy
and vision; and interpersonal skills emphasizing consensus building
and influencing peers and other policy makers -- both internal and
external to the organization. Strategic leaders focus on the longrange vision for their organization ranging from 5 to 20 years, or
more.
1-8. Values
a. The professional Army ethic is the set of values that guide the
way we live our lives and perform our duties. The essentialvalues of
our professional ethic are:
(1) Loyalty. Loyalty to the nation, to the Army and to the unit.
This means supporting the military and civilian chain of command,
as well as devoting oneself to the welfare of others.
(2) Duty. Duty is the legal and moral obligation to do what
should be done without being told.
(3) Selfless service. This means putting the welfare of the nation
and accomplishment of the mission ahead of personal desires.
(4) Integrity. This is the thread woven through the fabric of the
professional Army ethic. Integrity means honesty, uprightness, the
avoidance of deception and steadfast adherence to standards of behavior.

AR 600-100. 17 September 1993

b. Four individual values strengthen and support the ethical
code. They are commitment, competence, candor and courage.
Commitment means dedication to carry out all unit missions and to
serve the values of the nation, the Army, and the organization.
Competence is proficiency in required professional knowledge,
skills, and attitudes. Candoris being frank, open, honest, and sincere with soldiers, seniors, and peers. Courage comes in two forms.
Physical courage is overcoming personal fears of bodily harm and
doing your duty. Moral courage is overcoming fears of other than
bodily harm while doing what ought to be done.
1-9. Leader Development
a. The Army has an integrated, progressive, and sequential program of leader development based on three pillars: institutional
training, operational assignments, and self-development. The purpose of the leader development system is to develop competent, confident leaders who understand and are able to exploit the full potential of present and future doctrine. The Army leader must continue
to develop while performing as a leader, but should not be placed in
a position of leadership before having met all entry requirements for
that position.
b. Two principles govern the Army leader development system.
First, the Army must properly sequence institutional training, operational assignments, and self-development. Second, the Army must
retain progressive and sequential life cycle models for all leaders in
their respective developmental areas.
c. From these two principles are derived twelve imperatives
which are linked to each of the three pillars.
(1) Institutionaltraining. The Army will do the following:
(a) Retain progressive and sequential education systems.
(b) Train leaders in the critical tasks they will need as future leaders.
(c) Develop the Total Army.
(d) Keep quality instructors in the training base.
(e) Select the best qualified for resident courses.
() Produce qualified students and instructors.
(g) Have the right mix of resident and non-resident instruction.
(2) Operationalassignments. The Army will do the following:
(a) Provide leaders with critical experiences they will need for
the future.
(b) Provide adequate training opportunities in adequately
manned and resourced units.
(c) Base assignments on leader development priorities.
(3) Self-development. The Army will do the following:
(a) Stress the individual's responsibility for leader development.
(b) Identify, specify, and refine self-development requirements.
c. The Leader Development Support System (LDSS) provides a
mechanism to assess, develop, coordinate, and prepare leader development actions for decision and implementation. The LDSS provides a systematic means to monitor and accommodate the effects of
change on Army leader development and a vehicle to ensure leader
development issues are integrated and resolved at appropriate levels
in the Army. The LDSS consists of:
(1) The Chief of Staff, Army, and senior commanders. This
group reviews initiatives and provides focus and direction.
(2) The Leader Development Decision Network (LDDN). This
is an informal action network consisting of four permanent members - DCSOPS, DCSPER, TRADOC, and Deputy Commandant,
Command and General Staff College (CGSC) - and other organizations as needed to participate in issue development, resolution, and
execution.
(3) The Deputy Commandant, CGSC, who is the executive agent
for Total Army Leader Development. The Deputy Commandant is
assisted by the Leader Development Office (LDO), Center for Army
Leadership (CAL), which is the operating agency for the LDSS.
d. DA PAM 600-32 describes the Army leader development
process and programs.

Chapter 2
Responsibilities
2-1. General
a. All leaders are responsible for:
(1) Accomplishing the unit's mission.
(2) Ensuring subordinates welfare to include physical, moral,
personal, and professional well-being.
(3) Effectively communicating vision, purpose and direction.
(4) Setting and exemplifying the highest professional and ethical
standards.
(5) Building cohesive teams.
(6) Empowering subordinates.
(7) Developing their own and subordinate leaders' skills, knowledge, and attitudes.
(8) Building discipline, while stimulating confidence, enthusiasm
and trust.
(9) Anticipating, managing, and exploiting change.
(10) Anticipating and solving problems.
(11) Acting decisively under pressure.
(12) Evaluating and accepting risk to exploit opportunity.
(13) Treating subordinates with dignity, respect, fairness and
consistency.
b. All Army leaders have a responsibility for personal acceptance
of the Army ethic and for instilling in subordinates those values that
comprise it.
(1) General officers and senior civilians at the strategic levels of
the Army are responsible for establishing fundamental tenets of the
Army ethic; creating and communicating the Army vision; creating
policies, structure and programs; and strengthening the Army's values through their own behaviors. They affect all members junior to
them by formulating policies that support and sustain those values,
and by ensuring that procedures developed at lower levels further
support Army policy and values. Strategic level leaders are responsible for the total Army culture.
(2) Senior level leaders promote Army values by establishing and
maintaining the command climate of their organizations through
sound, ethical organizational policies and practices. Command climate is the sum of the philosophy, values, procedures, and behaviors
which are modeled, expected, and rewarded by the commander. Senior leaders must consider individual perceptions and their effects in
establishing and maintaining a healthy command climate. At the
core of the responsibility of senior level leaders is the need to develop, motivate, and coach subordinate leaders.
(3) Leaders at the direct level affect values and behavior by establishing day-to-day procedures, practices and working norms, by
their personal example, and by building discipline, cohesion, motivation, consistency and fair play. By carrying out their responsibilities as outlined in paragraph 2-1, leaders strengthen individual values and commitment to the Army and bolster organizational
productivity and growth. Leaders operating at this level have the
most face-to-face contact with subordinates; therefore, they directly
influence behavior of individuals and help to shape their values. The
values leaders personally practice have a major impact in determining unit and organizational value systems.
2-2. Chief of Staff, ArmyThe Chief of Staff, Army is responsible for General Officer Leadership and Leader Development policy and training.
2-3. The Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and
Reserve Affairs)As the Chairman of the Civilian Executive Resources Board
(CERB) and as Secretary of the Army designee responsible for all
aspects of the Senior Executive Service (SES) program, will prescribe policy for, and exercise oversight of, all aspects of leadership
and leader development for the Senior Executive Service.

AR 600-100. 17 September 1993

2-4. Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel (DCSPER) willa. Exercise general staff supervision and responsibility for developing and promulgating Army leadership policies.
b. Serve as the Army Staff (ARSTAF) policy proponent for both
military and civilian leadership.
c. Appoint points of contact (POCs) to coordinate with and advise DCSOPS and the Deputy Commandant, Command and General Staff College (CGSC), regarding leader development issues.
d. Participate in or support appropriate leadership and leader development conferences.
e. Coordinate and prioritize leadership research with special emphasis on the activities of the U.S. Army Research Institute for the
Behavioral and Social Sciences (ARI). Approve, schedule and conduct leadership research conferences to coordinate research of participating agencies and organizations and to review findings.
f. Evaluate leadership policies and programs as they affect units
and organizations in the field. Approve, schedule and conduct leadership conferences, when appropriate, to integrate leadership and
leader development policies, issues and programs.
g. Ensure that leadership and personnel management policies are
synchronized with leader development policies. This will be done in
coordination with the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and
Plans (DCSOPS).
h. Serve as point of contact on the Civilian Executive Review
Board (CERB) for issues relating to civilian leadership and leader
development. Coordinate with ASA (MRA).
i. Serve as a permanent member of the Leader Development Decision Network (LDDN).
2-5. Director, U.S. Army Research Institute for the
Behavioral and Social Sciences (ARI) willa. Respond to leadership research priorities established by ODCSPER.
b. Provide general research support to those agencies charged
with responsibilities for developing theory, concepts, doctrine, and
policy in the fields of leadership and leader development.
c. Coordinate with other Defense research agencies to review and
evaluate, as appropriate, research which relates to leadership and
management.
d. Stay abreast of developments in leadership, and management
theory and practice in other services and civilian organizations.
e. Actively participate in Army leadership, leadership research,
and leader development conferences.
2-6. Commanding General, U.S. Total Army Personnel
Command (CG, PERSCOM) willa. Ensure professional development programs for Army personnel, including schooling and assignment procedures, are consistent
with Army leadership, leader development, and management policies.
b. Advise and assist the Leader Development Support System on
leader development issues and policies as required.
c. Advise the DCSPER on probable consequences of implementation of personnel management policies on leadership policy and
leader development policies.
d. Provide resource support as required to ensure continued core
civilian leadership development through institutional training.
e. Participate in Army leadership, leadership research, and
leader development conferences, as appropriate.
2-7. Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and Plans
(DCSOPS) willa. Exercise general staff responsibility for all policies and matters
relating to individual and unit training.
b. Exercise direct responsibility for leader development policy for
the Total Army.
c. Be ARSTAF proponent for the Leader Development Support
System (LDSS).
d. Convene, on behalf of the Chief of Staff, the Leader Development Decision Network (LDDN), an integral part of the Leader

Development Support System (LDSS), as needed. Serve as a permanent member of the LDDN.
e. Coordinate leader development actions with appropriate ARSTAF agencies and MACOMs.
f. Facilitate Leader Development Office (LDO) operations by
tasking ARSTAF agencies and MACOMs with leader development
actions, as appropriate. Assist LDO/CAL in coordinating and
presenting the CSA Quarterly Leader Development Update.
g. Provide resource support as required to ensure sustained operation of LDO.
h. Coordinate with the DCSPER and Director of Management,
Office of the Chief of Staff (OCSA (DM)) to ensure leadership and
management policy and leader development policy, doctrine, and
programs are consistent.
i. Participate in Army leadership, leadership research, and leader
development conferences.
2-8. Director of Management (DM), Office of the Chief of
Staff, Army (OCSA) willa. Perform as Army Staff proponent for Total Army Quality
(TAQ) and Army Regulation 5-1.
b. Coordinate with DCSPER to ensure that appropriate components of TAQ are included in Army leadership policy.
c. Coordinate with DCSOPS to ensure that appropriate components of TAQ are included in Army leader development policy.
2-9. The Inspector General (TIG), as the confidential
'representative of the commander, will, at the
commander's directiona. assess or investigate alleged violations of the Army's professional ethic.
b. assist the commander in teaching and training leaders on the
fundamental tenets of the Army ethic.
2-10. The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) willa. Perform as the primary staff assistant to the Army Chief of
Staff in carrying out his responsibilities for the Department of Defense ethics program.
b. Maintain the Standards of Conduct Office (SOCO) to manage
two critical elements of the ethics program: compliance with requirements and support to the field commands.
c. Integrate leadership training in courses of instruction at The
Judge Advocate General's School (TJAGSA).
2-11. Chief of Military History willa. Produce historical publications on topics bearing on leadership and leader development.
b. Conduct historical research, prepare bibliographies, and develop and present narrative and other accounts on leadership and
leader development topics.
c. Develop and assist Army museums in developing historical exhibits on leadership and leader development topics.
2-12. Major Army Command (MACOM) commanders willa. Ensure unit level leadership training and leader development
are conducted for assigned Active Component (AC) and Reserve
Component (RC) Forces and Army civilians.
b. Supervise in-unit leadership training of Individual Ready Reserve and Individual Mobilization Augmentee personnel assigned or
attached to AC or RC units.
c. As appropriate, incorporate Total Army Quality in training
and courses of instruction for military and civilian leaders.
d. Participate in leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences, as appropriate.
e. As an integral part of the LDSS, provide recommendations
and feedback concerning leadership and leader development issues
and programs to ODCSPER, ODCSOPS, or USACGSC, as appropriate.

AR 600-100* 17 September 1993

2-13. Commanding General, U.S. Army Training and
Doctrine Command (CG, TRADOC) willa. Develop Army leadership and leader development operational
concepts, doctrine, and programs in coordination with HQDA and
based upon Army leadership theory.
b. Integrate Army leadership doctrine in all training programs in
service schools and training centers for commissioned and warrant
officers, noncommissioned officers, and Army civilians at progressive and sequential phases of career development.
c. Manage all leadership education and training programs of instruction, to include development and implementation of leadership
assessment policy, in TRADOC service schools and training centers.
d. Monitor the development and implementation of Developmental Leadership Assessment training support packages for officer, warrant officer, noncommissioned officer, and Army civilian
leadership training programs.
e. Conduct precommissioning leadership instruction for ROTC,
OCS and NDCC.
f. Exercise command oversight of the TRADOC elements of the
Leader Development Support System.
g. Participate in leadership, leadership research, and leader development conferences.
h. Serve as a permanent member of the LDDN.
2-14. Commanding General, Combined Arms Command
(CG, CAC) willa. Serve as the TRADOC proponent for leadership, leader development, and leadership assessment.
b. Provide guidance and support for leadership, leader development, and leadership research conferences.
2-15. Deputy Commandant, U.S. Army Command and
General Staff College (DC, USACGSC) willa. Serve as executive agent for leader development theory, concepts, doctrine, policy and programs for the Total Army.
b. Administer, as the executive agent for the CSA for leader development, the Leader Development Support System (LDSS) and
the Leader Development Decision Network (LDDN).
c. Monitor of all elements of the leader development process: education/training; experience; assessments; feedback; remediation/
reinforcement; evaluation; and selection for promotion, and positions of greater responsibility to determine ways to improve the process.
d. Ensure coordination and appropriate integration among commissioned officer, warrant officer, noncommissioned officer, civilian,
and reserve component leader development programs occurs.
e. Ensure Army-wide coordination, integration, and execution of
leader development matters through the LDSS.
f. Provide guidance and support for leadership, leader development, and leadership research conferences.
g. Serve as a permanent member of the LDDN.
h. Present an update of leader development action plans and
other leader development initiatives to CSA quarterly.
i. Provide status of leader development initiatives to strategic
Army leaders.
j. Conduct instruction in leadership and ethics for the Command
and General Staff Officer Course, Precommand Course, Division
Commander/Assistant Division Commander Course, and other
courses as directed.
k. Facilitate the coordination and integration of research, concepts and doctrine development, training, and evaluation in all areas
of leadership. This will be accomplished in coordination with
DCSPER.
1. Coordinate closely with service schools, training centers,
USAWC, AMSC, USAR schools, ARNG state military academies,
and precommissioning schools (USMA, ROTC, OCS) to achieve an
integrated, progressive, and sequential leadership and ethics instruction program.
m. Assist in the integration of approved leadership and leader development doctrine into Army-wide programs of instruction.

n. Establish and maintain close coordination with service
schools, the research community, the civilian academic community,
other services and services of other countries to monitor and evaluate research and studies in leadership, ethics, cohesion, leader development, and leadership assessment.
o. Develop and provide training support materials on leadership,
leader development, leadership assessment, and ethics to all Army
service schools, training centers under TRADOC, and other Army
organizations.
p. Review and evaluate leadership education and training curricula in TRADOC service schools and training centers. Provide assistance in the review and evaluation of leadership curricula to service
schools not under TRADOC, as requested.
q. Provide recommendations, as requested, on requirements for
Army leadership instructor education.
r. Develop and conduct leadership training for Army civilians at
the intern, supervisor, manager levels, as directed by TRADOC.
s. Design, field, and monitor programs that support Army-wide
leader development (e.g., Military Qualification Standards system,
leader development action plans, leadership assessment programs,
doctrine publication, etc.).
t. Monitor the civilian sector for applicable leadership training
services. This will be accomplished in coordination with DCSPER,
DCSOPS, and OCSA(DM). Evaluate potential training packages
and incorporate them into leadership curricula as appropriate.
u. Serve as the proponent for leadership assessment for the Army
and serve as executive agent for CG, CAC, for the TRADOC Developmental Leadership Assessment program. This will be accomplished in coordination with DCSPER and DCSOPS. Design, field,
and monitor leadership assessment programs that contribute to Total Army leader development in institutional training, operational
assignments, and self development. Coordinate with Army agencies
which are using assessment techniques to include Cadet Command,
USMA, USAWC, AMSC and USASMA.
v. Develop programs in accordance with established Army standards that will enhance the communication skills (reading, writing
and listening) of leaders Army-wide. This will be done in coordination with the Office of the Chief of Public Affairs (OCPA); Commander, TRADOC; Commander, PERSCOM; and Commandant,
USASMA.
w. Assess and focus leader development issues and conduct special studies where required.
x. Evaluate impact of proposed Army policies on leader development when appropriate.
y. Participate in leadership, leader development and leadership
research conferences.
2-16. Commandant, U.S. Army War College (USAWC)
willa. Conduct instruction in command, leadership and management
for all USAWC resident and non-resident students. Coordinate
with the Center for Army Leadership (CAL) to ensure this instruction is integrated with and linked progressively and sequentially to
leadership instruction in TRADOC schools.
b. Develop and manage a leadership assessment program to assist USAWC resident and non-resident students with personal and
professional development.
c. Assist the General Officer Management Office (GOMO) in the
training and professional development of general officers. This will
be achieved by providing tailored instruction; coordination for access to wargaming and simulations relating to follow-on assignments; and advice on curricula, educational objectives, and study
materials at other schools educating general officers.
d. Establish and maintain liaison with ODCSPER, CAL, ARI,
and other agencies, as needed, to ensure coordination of leadership
assessment, research, and instructional activities at USAWC with
the TRADOC program of leadership assessment and development,
leadership instruction in TRADOC schools, the development of
Army leadership doctrine, and the overall leadership research program.
e. Provide research consultation and other assistance on request.

AR 600-100 17 September 1993

fJ Participate actively in Army leadership, leadership research,
and leader development conferences.

f. Actively participate in Army leadership workshops/conferences.

2-17. Commandant, U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy
(USASMA) willa. Design and develop course and training materials to support
the NCOES and, as appropriate, functional courses.
b. Conduct doctrine-based instruction in command, leadership,
and management for all USASMA resident students.
c. Develop and export doctrine-based instruction in command,
leadership, and management for all USASMA non-resident students.
d. As appropriate, manage a developmental leadership assessment program that integrates CAL initiatives with the requirements
for trained noncommissioned officer leaders.
e. Establish and maintain liaison with CAL, HQ TRADOC, and
NCO Academies to ensure cohesiveness of training programs.
f. Provide consultation on the NCOES to Army leadership and
develop leadership training support materials for noncommissioned
officers in coordination with CAL.
g. Participate actively in Army leadership, leader development,
and leadership research conferences.

2-21. Director, Walter Reed Army Institute for Research
(WRAIR) willa. Coordinate with ARI on leadership and cohesion aspects of
medical research, particularly the prevention and treatment of combat stress and psychiatric casualties. Provide results or executive
summary to CAL of all studies on leaders, leadership, and leader development.
b. Provide research support to the DCSPER upon request.
c. Participate in Army leadership, leader devlopment, and leadership research conferences.

2-18. Commandant, U.S. Army Management Staff College
(AMSC) willa. Conduct instruction in command, leadership, and management for all AMSC resident and non-resident students.
b. Develop and manage a developmental leadership assessment
program that integrates CAL initiatives with the requirements of
the Army sustaining base.
c. Promote the bonding of civilian and military leaders, thereby
enhancing the cohesiveness of the Total Army Team.
d. Establish and maintain liaison with ODCSPER, CAC,
USAWC, CAL and other agencies to ensure coordination between
AMSC and TRADOC programs of leadership instruction and development of Army leadership doctrine.
e. Monitor and evaluate ongoing research in the areas of leadership and management.
f. Provide advice in support of research pertaining to the sustaining base, as required.
g. Participate actively in Army leadership, leader development,
and leadership research conferences.
2-19. Commanding General, U.S. Army Health Services
Command (CG, USAHSC) willa. Integrate Army leadership doctrine in all education and training programs of instruction at the U.S. Army Medical Department
Center and School.
b. Develop and manage a developmental leadership assessment
program at the U.S. Army Medical Department Center and School.
c. Participate in Army leadership, leader development and leadership research conferences, as appropriate.
2-20. Commandant, U.S. Army Warrant Officer Career
Center (PROV) (USAWOCC) willa. In coordination with CAL, design and develop courseware
that is linked to Army leadership concepts, doctrine, and policy to
support the Warrant Officer Education System (WOES).
b. Conduct instruction in management, leadership, and leader
development that is linked to Army leadership concepts, doctrine,
and policy for all Warrant Officer Education System (WOES)

2-22. Superintendent, United States Military Academy
(USMA) willa. Conduct precommissioning leader development and leadership instruction for the U.S. Corps of Cadets.
b. Establish and maintain liaison with ODCSPER, CAL, ARI,
and other agencies as needed, to ensure coordination of leadership
instructional activities at USMA with other precommissioning programs and with TRADOC leadership instruction.
c. Provide consultation, research, and other assistance in support
of other Army leadership agencies consistent with available resources and with the Academy's mission.
d. Participate actively in Army leadership, leader development,
and leadership research conferences, and assist CAL in the development of Army leadership doctrine and training support materials.
2-23. Chief of Chaplains willa. Provide advice and assistance to Army leaders so that they will
be equipped to fulfill their spiritual, religious, and moral leadership
responsibilities for the Army.
b. Address the moral, social, ethical and spiritual dimensions of
soldiers' and civilian actions in war and during peace through the
Commander's Moral Leadership Training Program.
2-24. Chief, National Guard Bureau (CNGB), willIn conjunction with ODCSPER, ODCSOPS, TRADOC, FORSCOM, and OCAR recommend, establish, and promulgate Army
policies for leadership training and education and leader development for the Army National Guard, Active Guard and Reserve, and
Military Technician soldiers.
2-25. State Adjutants General (Commanders, State Area
Commands, Army National Guard [ARNG]) willConduct leadership training and education and leader development
in OCS, NCOES and other training programs in State Military
Academies for military personnel.
2-26. Chief, Army Reserve (CAR) willIn conjunction with ODCSPER, ODCSOPS, TRADOC, FORSCOM, and NGB recommend, establish, and promulgate Army
policies for leadership training and education and leader development for Individial Mobilization Augmentee, Active Reserve, and
Individual Ready Reserve soldiers.

courses.

c. Develop and export instruction in leadership and management
for use at WOCS-RC.
d. Establish and maintain liaison with CAL, HQ TRADOC,
CAL proponent schools, CASCOM proponent schools, and RC
Warrant Officer schools to ensure leadership education and training
programs are synchronized.
e. Provide advice to Army leadership on the WOES and warrant
officer leadership training and education and leader development issues.
AR 600-100. 17 September 1993

Appendix A
References

FM 22-102
Soldier Team Development

Section I
Required Publications

FM 22-103
Leadership and Command at Senior Levels

AR 5-1
Army Management Philosophy.(Cited in para 2-8.)

FM 25-100
Training the Force
FM 25-101
Battle Focused Training

Section II
Related Publications
A related publication is merely a source of additional information. The user does
not have to read it to understand this publication.

FM 100-1
The Army

AR 10-5
Organization and Functions: Department of the Army

FM 100-5
Operations

AR 10-7
Organization and Functions: United States Army Research
Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences

NGR 10-2
Organizations and Functions: State Area Command, Army
National Guard

AR 10-17
Organization and Functions: The United States Total Army
Personnel Command

Section III
Prescribed Forms

AR 10-87
Major Army Commands in the Continental United States
AR 600-20
Army Command Policy

No entries in this section.
Section IV
Referenced Forms
No entries in this section.

AR 600-83
The New Manning System -COHORT Unit Replacement System
Army Command and Management Theory and Practice, 19911992, US Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, PA
AR 690-400
Civilian Personnel Employee Performance and Utilization
AR 690-900
Senior Executive Service
AR 690-950
Civilian Personnel Management Directorate
DA Pam 600-3
Commissioned Officer Professional Development
DA Pam 600-11
Warrant Officer Professional Development
DA Pam 600-25
US Army Noncommisioned Officer Professional Development
Guide
DA Pam 600-32
Leader Dievelopment for the Total Army - The Enduring Legacy
DA Pam 600-50,
White Paper 1985--Leadership Makes the Difference
DA Pam 600-80
Executive Leadership
FM 22-100
Military Leadership
FM 22-101
Leadership Counseling
AR 600-100.17 September 1993

Glossary
Section I
Abbreviations
ACTEDS
Army Civilian Training Education and Development System
AMSC
Army Management Staff College
ARI
Army Research Institute for the Behavioral
and Social Sciences
ARNG
Army National Guard
ARSTAF
Army Staff
CAC
Combined Arms Command
CAL
Center for Army Leadership
CAR
Chief, Army Reserve
CERB
Civilian Executive Resources Board
CG
Commanding General
CGSC
Command and General Staff College
CPMD
Civilian Personnel Management Directorate
CSA
Chief of Staff, Army

LDAP
Leader Development Action Plan

US
United States

LDDN
Leader Development Decision Network

USACGSC
United States Army Command and General
Staff College

LDO
Leader Development Office
LDSS
Leader Development Support System
MACOM
Major Army Command

USAHSC
United States Army Health Services Command
USAR
United States Army Reserve

NCOES
Noncommissioned Officer Education System

USASMA
United States Army Sergeants Major Academy

NCO
Noncommissioned Officer

USAWC
United States Army War College

NDCC
National Defense Cadet Corps

USMA
United States Military Academy

OCPA
Office of the Chief of Public Affairs

WOES
Warrant Officer Education System

OCS
Officer Candidate School
OCSA
Office of the Chief of Staff, Army
ODCSOPS
Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations
ODCSPER
Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel
PERSCOM
United States Total Army Personnel Command
RC
Reserve Component

DCSOPS
Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and
Plans

ROTC
Reserve Officer Training Corps

DCSPER
Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel

SES
Senior Executive Service

DM
Director of Management

SOCO
Standards of Conduct Office

FM
Field Manual

TAQ
Total Army Quality

GOMO
General Officer Management Office

TDA
Table of Distribution Allowances

HQDA
Headquarters Department of the Army

TJAG
The Judge Advocate General

IMA
Individual Mobilization Augmentee

TJAGSA
The Judge Advocate General's School

IRR
Individual Ready Reserve

TRADOC
Training and Doctrine Command
AR 600-100.17 September 1993

WRAIR
Walter Reed Army Institute for Research
Section II
Terms
Army Civilian Training Education and
Development System
A system that ensures planned development
of civilians through a blending of progressive
and sequential operational assignments, institutional training, and self-development for
individuals as they progress from entry level
to key positions.
Climate
The state of morale and level of satisfaction
of members of an organization.
Concept
An idea or notion expressing how a task or
mission might be done or accomplished.
Concept development is based on theory and
precedes the development of doctrine.
Culture
The values, beliefs, norms, rules and environment that significantly influence how an organization operates.
Developmental Leadership Assessment
Training
Training Support Packages that teach leaders
to identify and analyze subordinate leader behaviors and how to provide feedback and developmental counseling.
Doctrine
Fundamental principles by which military
forces or elements thereof guide their actions.
Doctrine evolves from theory and concepts
based on values, beliefs, historical perspective, experience and research.

Individual Values
Values are attitudes about the worth or importance of people, concepts, or material
items. Values influence behavior because
they are used to decide between and among
alternatives. The four individual values that
all Army members are expected to possess
are courage, candor, competence, and commitment.
Leader Development
The process of developing or promoting the
growth of confident, competent military and
civilian leaders who understand and are able
to exploit the full potential of present and future doctrine. Leader development is a continuous and cumulative process of education/training, experience, assessment,
remediation/reinforcement and feedback. It
also involves evaluating and selecting individuals for promotion, positions of greater responsibility, and additional duties. It is an
integrated, progressive, and sequential process which emphasizes three pillars. They
are institutional training, operational assignments, and self-development.
Leader Development Decision Network
(LDDN)
A network of organizations which is constituted to consider and recommend action on
leader development issues. At a minimum, it
consists of a General Officer Steering Committee (GOSC), a Council of Colonels, and
an Action Officer Committee. Permanent
members include the DCSOPS, DCSPER,
CG, TRADOC, and Deputy Commandant,
CGSC. Temporary members will consist of
those organizations with the need, expertise,
and resources to participate in issue development and/or execution. Potential temporary
members of the LDDN could include
branch/functional area proponents,
MACOMs, HQDA staff agencies, and other
organizations and activities, as appropriate.
Convened, as required, by the DCSOPS, on
behalf of the CSA.
Leader Development Office (LDO)
The LDO is organized under direction of the
Deputy Commandant, USACGSC; it serves
as the Deputy Commandant's staff in his role
as executive agent for Army leader development. LDO assesses, develops, coordinates,
and monitors leader development issues from
concept through completion.

sustain leader development efforts into the
future.
Leadership Assessment
A structured process that focuses on developing leaders by using multiple observations
and frequent feedback sessions. Assessment
provides information about a leader's readiness or potential to lead effectively in a particular position or level within the Army.
Leadership
The process of influencing others to accomplish the mission by providing purpose, direction, and motivation. Leadership is also
the product of the leader development process.
Policy
A broad guide or principle used by an organization to select a definite course or method of
action or to guide and determine present and
future decisions. Policy sets the context for
what an organization is to accomplish. Policy should be based on doctrine.
The Professional Army Ethic
A statement of those institutional values and
principles of conduct that provide the moral
framework within which military action
takes place. The professional Army ethic
consists of four fundamental and enduring
values of loyalty, duty, selfless service, and
integrity. Additional information on the professional Army ethic can be found in FM
100-1.
Self-development
A planned, progressive, and sequential program followed by leaders to enhance and sustain competencies. Self-development consists of individual study, research,
professional reading, practice and self-assessment.
Section III
Special Abbreviations and Terms
There are no entries in this section.

Leader Development Support System
(LDSS)
A system consisting of three components:
CSA/senior commanders; the Deputy Commandant, USACGSC/CAL; and the
LDDN. The mission of the LDSS is to provide systematic means to monitor and accommodate the effects of change on Army
leader development; to assess, develop, coordinate, and prepare leader development actions for decision and implementation; to ensure leader development issues are integrated
and resolved at the appropriate level; and to
AR 600-100 17 September 1993

Index

The

This index isorganized alphabetically by topic and by
subtopic within a topic. Topics and subtopics are
identified by paragraph number.
Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower
and Reserve Affairs), responsibilities of,
2-3

Inspector

General, responsibilitis

of,

2-9
The Judge Advocate General, responsibilities of, 2-10
Values, 1-8

Chief, Army Reserve, responsibilities of
2-26
Chief, National Guard Bureau, responsibilities of, 2-24
Chief of Chaplains, responsibilities of, 2-23
Chief of Military History, responsibilities
of, 2-11
Chief of Staff, Army, responsibilities of 2-2
Commandant, U.S. Army Management
Staff College, responsibilities of, 2-18
Commandant, U.S. Army Sergeants Major
Academy, responsibilities of, 2-17
Commandant, U.S. Army War College, responsibilities of, 2-16
Commandant, U.S. Army Warrant Officer
Career Center, responsibilities of, 2-20
Commanding General, Combined Arms
Command, responsibilities of, 2-14
Commanding General, U.S. Army Health
Services Command, responsibilities of,
2-19
Commanding General, U.S. Army Total
Personnel Command, responsibilities of,
2-6
Commanding General, U.S. Army Training
and Doctrine Command, responsibilities
of, 2-13
Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and
Plans, responsibilities of, 2-7
Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel, responsibilities of, 2-4
Deputy Commandant, U.S. Army Command
and General Staff College, responsibilities
of, 2-15
Director of Management, Office of the
Chief of Staff, Army, responsibilities of,
2-8
Director, U.S. Army Research Institute for
the Behavioral and Social Sciences, responsibilities of, 2-5
Director, Walter Reed Army Institute for
Research, responsibilities of, 2-21
Leader development, 1-9
Leadership, levels of, 1-7
Major Army Command commanders, responsibilities of, 2-12
State Adjutants General (Commanders,
State Area Commands, Army National
Guard), responsibilities of, 2-25
Superintendent, United States Military
Academy, responsibilities of, 2-22
*U.S.

G.P.O.:1993-300-759:80137

AR 600-100.17

September

1993

UNCLASSIFIED

PIN 059983-000

