ATP 6-22.6

Army Team Building

OCTOBER 2015

DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.

HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

This publication is available at Army Knowledge Online
(https://armypubs.us.army.mil/doctrine/index.html).
To receive publishing updates, please subscribe at
http://www.apd.army.mil/AdminPubs/new_subscribe.asp

ATP 6-22.6
Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC, 30 October 2015

Army Techniques Publication
No. 6-22.6

Army Team Building
Contents
Page

PREFACE .............................................................................................................. iii
INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................iv
Chapter 1

FUNDAMENTALS OF TEAM BUILDING .......................................................... 1-1
Team Building Fundamentals ............................................................................. 1-1
Team Building Stages......................................................................................... 1-2
Characteristics Of Effective Teams .................................................................... 1-4
Categories Of Teams ......................................................................................... 1-5
Roles and Responsibilities .................................................................................. 1-6
Team Members ................................................................................................ 1-12

Chapter 2

FORMATION STAGE......................................................................................... 2-1
Assemble the Team ............................................................................................ 2-1
Build Trust........................................................................................................... 2-6
Team Communication ........................................................................................ 2-9
Rapidly Formed Teams .................................................................................... 2-11

Chapter 3

ENRICHMENT STAGE ...................................................................................... 3-1
Build Commitment .............................................................................................. 3-1
Build Shared Competence .................................................................................. 3-3
Build Shared Confidence .................................................................................... 3-3
Motivate Team Members .................................................................................... 3-3
Build Shared Accountability ................................................................................ 3-5
Develop Cohesion .............................................................................................. 3-5

Chapter 4

SUSTAINMENT STAGE .................................................................................... 4-1
Adapt To Change................................................................................................ 4-1
Manage Conflict .................................................................................................. 4-2
Sustain Resilient Teams ..................................................................................... 4-4

Appendix A

TEAM ASSESSMENTS ..................................................................................... A-1
Assessing External Teams ................................................................................. A-2

Appendix B

EXTERNAL TEAMS ........................................................................................... B-1

Distribution Restriction: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.

i

Contents

GLOSSARY ...........................................................................................Glossary-1
REFERENCES .................................................................................. References-1
INDEX ......................................................................................................... Index-1

Figures
Figure 1-1. Army team building process ................................................................................ 1-2

Tables
Table 4-1. Techniques for adapting to team changes ............................................................ 4-2

ii

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Preface
Building cohesive teams through mutual trust is a principle of mission command and an essential skill for Army
leaders. ATP 6-22.6, Army Team Building, expands upon this principle by offering fundamentals of team
building and specific techniques for building and maintaining effective teams. This ATP describes the major
activities of Army team building. This ATP also provides a method for team assessments.
To comprehend the doctrine contained in this publication, readers should understand the fundamentals of
leadership found in ADP 1, ADRP 1, ADP 6-0, ADRP 6-0, ADP 6-22, ADRP 6-22, and FM 6-22.
The principal audience for this publication is Army commanders, directors, staff officers, and leaders. Trainers
and educators throughout the Army will also use this publication.
Commanders, staffs, and subordinates ensure their decisions and actions comply with applicable U.S.,
international, and, in some cases, host nation laws and regulations. Commanders at all levels ensure their
Soldiers operate in accordance with the law of war and the rules of engagement. (See FM 27-10.)
ATP 6-22.6 uses joint terms where applicable. Selected joint and Army terms and definitions appear in both the
glossary and the text. For definitions shown in the text, the term is italicized and the number of the proponent
publication follows the definition.
ATP 6-22.6 applies to the Active Army, the Army National Guard/Army National Guard of the United States,
and the United States Army Reserve unless otherwise stated.
Headquarters, U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command, is the proponent for this publication. The preparing
agency is the Combined Arms Doctrine Directorate, U.S. Army Combined Arms Center. Send comments and
recommendations on a DA Form 2028 (Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms) to
Commander, U.S. Army Combined Arms Center and Fort Leavenworth, ATTN: ATZL-MCK-D (ATP 6-22.6),
300
McPherson
Avenue,
Fort
Leavenworth,
KS
66027-2337;
by
e-mail
to
usarmy.leavenworth.mccoe.mbx.cadd-org-mailbox@mail.mil; or submit an electronic DA Form 2028.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

iii

Introduction
Army organizations rely on effective teams to complete tasks, achieve objectives, and accomplish missions.
The ability to build teams through mutual trust and maintain effective, cohesive teams throughout military
operations is an essential skill for commanders, staffs, and all Army leaders. Leaders are faced with many
different types of missions and joint operations in an operational environment. The size of a team, the
diversity of the team, the structure of the team, and the organizations and unified action partners that team
members come from can make building and maintaining effective teams a constant challenge for leaders.
Teams are an essential part of the Army. The Army could not accomplish missions without teams. To get
the most from a team, the team must be cohesive and effective, which does not just happen by chance. It
takes work and time to develop a team. Once the team achieves a high level of cohesion, it is critical to
sustain it at that level for the life of the team. Having tools and techniques for assessing the team’s
performance is important. Having accurate assessments of the team, the individual members, and the team
leaders lets the team know what is working and what needs improvement.
In May 2012, ADP 6-0 and ADRP 6-0 established “build cohesive teams through mutual trust” as a
principle of mission command. This ATP helps commanders, staffs, and all Army leaders to understand
team dynamics, and it offers techniques to help build cohesive and effective teams. The potential benefits
for using the team building techniques in this ATP include—
 Increasing mutual trust among all team members and with other teams.
 Enhancing collaboration between team leaders and team members.
 Developing adaptable teams able to function effectively in uncertain environments and situations.
 Helping teams develop shared vision, trust, competence, and confidence.
Chapter 1 begins with discussing the fundamentals of team building, including descriptions of a team,
teamwork, and team building. It then discusses the stages of team building and the characteristics of
effective teams. It describes the categories of teams and concludes with the responsibilities of team leaders
and team members.
Chapter 2 discusses the formation stage of team building beginning with a description of how to assemble a
team. It then discusses the importance of building trust, and it concludes with a discussion of how
communication contributes to team effectiveness.
Chapter 3 begins with a discussion of the importance of building commitment during the enrichment stage
of team building. It then describes shared competence, confidence, and accountability and how they
contribute to the effectiveness of teams. The chapter then discusses techniques to motivate teams and team
members, and the chapter concludes with a discussion on developing cohesion to enhance the performance
of teams.
Chapter 4 begins with a discussion on adapting to change. It then describes how teams manage conflict. The
chapter concludes with a discussion of building resilient teams.
Appendix A begins with an introduction to a team assessment. The appendix then discusses team leader
assessment. The appendix concludes with a summary of team assessment.
Appendix B provides techniques for building external teams.

iv

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Chapter 1

Fundamentals of Team Building
This chapter discusses the fundamentals of team building, including descriptions of a
team, teamwork, and team building. It then discusses the stages of team building and
the characteristics of effective teams. It describes the categories of teams and
concludes with the responsibilities of team leaders and team members.

TEAM BUILDING FUNDAMENTALS
1-1. A team is any group that functions together to accomplish a mission or perform a collective task. A
team’s work is interdependent and team members share responsibility and accountability for attaining
results. There is no size limit to a team. Teams are complex, dynamic groups that range from two people to
thousands of individuals. In the Army profession, Soldiers and Department of the Army Civilians are a part
of different teams, and sometimes they can be a part of many teams simultaneously.
1-2. Army organizations rely on effective teams to complete tasks, achieve objectives, and accomplish
missions. The ability to build teams through mutual trust and maintain effective, cohesive teams throughout
military operations is an essential skill for all Army commanders, staffs, and leaders. Faced with many
different types of missions and joint operations in an operational environment, building and maintaining
effective teams is a constant challenge for leaders. Building a successful team is challenging, but the
positive benefits of teamwork in a cohesive, effective team are well worth the effort and time it takes. These
benefits enhance the performance of the team, improve the skills of the individual team members, and build
important relationships with other organizations and unified action partners for the present and future.
1-3. Building cohesive teams through mutual trust and creating a shared understanding within those teams
are two principles that guide commanders in exercising mission command. Mission command is the exercise
of authority and direction by the commander using mission orders to enable disciplined initiative within the
commander’s intent to empower agile and adaptive leaders in the conduct of unified land operations
(ADP 6-0). Through dedication and understanding of how to apply team-building principles to their
organization, Army leaders create cohesion and accomplish missions.
1-4. A key to effective teamwork is the cooperative or coordinated effort of individuals acting together as
a group or in the interests of a common goal. Teamwork is built on mutual trust and commitment to the
team. The individual strengths and skills of each member combine in the pursuit of a common direction or
cause, producing results for the team members and the organization. The support a team provides to
individual team members reflects teamwork.
1-5. Understanding team dynamics is an important aspect of building and maintaining effective teams.
Team dynamics are the behavioral relationships between members of a group who connect within an
organization. The dynamics of a team will depend on the personalities of each team member and can affect
how a team performs. Many factors influence team dynamics, such as team members’ personalities, how the
team operates, the team’s identity, and the team's organizational environment.
1-6. Army team building is a continuous process of enabling a group of people to reach their goals and
improve their effectiveness through leadership and various exercises, activities and techniques (FM 6-22).
The goal of Army team building is to improve the quality of the team and how it works together to
accomplish the mission. Team building is essential for the Army to function and perform, and success for
the team depends on the work and cooperation of every member. The Army's process for team building
includes forming, enriching, and sustaining teams, as shown in figure 1-1.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

1-1

Chapter 1

Figure 1-1. Army team building process

TEAM BUILDING STAGES
1-7. Developing cohesive teams is a process that transforms groups of people into effective teams that are
able to accomplish missions and perform tasks. This continuous process helps newly formed teams from
initial orientation and integration through mission accomplishment. Team leaders and team members must
know and understand the stages in this process so they can identify them as the team develops and
progresses. Identifying and monitoring each stage allows the team to move toward the next step. The three
stages of team building are the—
 Formation stage.
 Enrichment stage.
 Sustainment stage.
1-8. Teams go through stages on their way to improving their effectiveness. Teams mature at different
rates, but almost every team goes through the stages of form, enrich, and sustain. The ultimate goal of
working through the team building stages is for the team to display the characteristics of an effective team.

FORMATION STAGE
1-9. Team leaders have an instrumental role in how a team works together, beginning with team
formation. Team leaders assemble the team and provide the team direction. The formation stage is
important because the team members get to know one another, exchange some personal information, and
make new friends. This is also a good opportunity to see how each member of the team works as an
individual.
1-10. Formation begins with receiving new team members. The new member reception and orientation
creates the first impression that affects the person’s opinion of the team. Having a good experience when
joining an organization makes it easier for a new member to fit in and to contribute to the team effort. The
team leader prepares the team to work, which involves orienting team members to the team’s mission, goals,

1-2

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Fundamentals of Team Building

and objectives. The team leader sets the team on a path to success by assigning team roles and
responsibilities appropriately to team members with the right capabilities.
1-11. The principal work for the team during the formation stage is to create a team with a clear structure,
goals, direction, and roles so that members begin to build trust, understand how to collaborate, and learn to
communicate effectively. (See chapter 2 for detailed discussion of the formation stage.)

ENRICHMENT STAGE
1-12. During the enrichment stage, the team members build commitment to the team. Commitment is the
foundation for synergy in groups when individuals put aside personal needs for the benefit of the team. The
team begins to work together effectively as individual team members focus more on the team as a whole.
Team members feel an increasing acceptance of others, recognizing that the variety of opinions and
experiences make the team stronger. Because of this, there is increased cohesion and more collaboration.
1-13. The enrichment stage focuses on how to strengthen relationships and motivate team members. A
leader’s role in motivation is to understand the needs and desires of others, to align and elevate individual
desires into team goals, and to inspire others to accomplish those larger goals. Team leaders use different
techniques to motivate the team to improve the team's effectiveness.
1-14. During the enrichment stage, team members develop accountability focused at the team rather than
the individual level. This means that the members of the team feel mutually accountable to each other. The
team as a whole accepts accountability for the results of the team's actions. Team members begin to develop
shared competence and shared confidence. Shared competence is important to the success of a cohesive,
effective team. Competence is evident when people perform their work at or above an established standard.
Shared confidence is the product of working as a team to execute an understood, shared mission, vision,
goal, objective, or purpose with a competent team. Small team successes develop shared confidence, which
in turn causes teams to undertake new and even more difficult challenges. With each accomplishment, a
team builds confidence and increases its effectiveness.
1-15. As members begin to feel like a part of a team, and there is increased trust and commitment, a team
becomes more cohesive. Cohesion is the bonding together of team members and their leaders in such a way
as to develop and sustain their commitment to their unit and their resolve to accomplish the mission.
Cohesion characterizes this stage of team building. A cohesive team puts aside any interfering differences
and chooses to work together. Every new mission gives the team leader a chance to challenge the team to
reach new levels of accomplishment and confidence. (See chapter 3 for detailed discussion of the
enrichment stage.)

SUSTAINMENT STAGE
1-16. At the sustainment stage, team members will do what is necessary without direction. The team’s
attitude about its capabilities elevates motivation and increases its ability to overcome adversity. Teams can
have challenges in the sustainment stage. Effective team leaders will watch for signs of complacency and
intervene when it occurs by reinforcing good interaction practices and holding the team to standard.
Changes for which the team is not prepared can be another challenge for the team leader. Shared
experiences and regular training help teams address unexpected changes in situations. Empowering the team
to improve coordination can strengthen its ability to handle change.
1-17. Learning how to manage conflict is important in all of the stages of team building, but it is especially
relevant in the sustainment stage. When conflict arises or trust is broken, team members disregard
commitments, team members are not accountable, or work goes undone. At this point, the leader steps in
and gets the team back on track. Team members handle these things during the sustainment stage. (See
chapter 4 for a detailed discussion of the sustainment stage.)
1-18. The Army relies on effective teams to perform tasks, achieve objectives, and accomplish missions.
Thus, building and maintaining effective teams is essential to mission command. To build an effective team,
it is important to have an understanding of the characteristics of an effective team.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

1-3

Chapter 1

CHARACTERISTICS OF EFFECTIVE TEAMS
1-19. Knowing the characteristics of effective teams help team leaders and team members build and
maintain effective teams throughout the Army. Effective teams—
 Trust each other and predict what each will do.
 Work together to accomplish the mission.
 Execute tasks thoroughly and quickly.
 Meet and exceed the standard.
 Adapt to demanding challenges.
 Learn from experiences and develop pride in accomplishments.

TRUST EACH OTHER AND PREDICT WHAT EACH WILL DO
1-20. For a team to work effectively, all team members establish trust. Teams with solid trust among their
team members are better equipped to predict what each team member will do. Team leaders foster trust and
commitment through shared experiences to build relationships that result in trust. In an effective team,
members become able to predict each other’s behaviors and respond quickly in changing circumstances.

WORK TOGETHER TO ACCOMPLISH THE MISSION
1-21. The teamwork necessary for cohesive, effective teams requires individuals to work together. A good
team supports and enhances the skills and learning of its members, and brings out the best in them.
Individual strengths and skills combine with teamwork, in the pursuit of a common direction or cause, to
produce results.

EXECUTE TASKS THOROUGHLY AND QUICKLY
1-22. Cohesive, effective teams execute their plans thoroughly and quickly and focus on achieving
collective results. Teams that execute tasks in this manner have high levels of motivation. Motivation is the
will and initiative to do what is necessary to accomplish a mission. To execute tasks thoroughly and quickly,
team leaders maintain motivation.

MEET AND EXCEED THE STANDARD
1-23. Team members on effective teams readily meet and exceed the standards. An effective team leader
instills discipline and builds esprit de corps by training to the standards, sensibly using rewards and
punishment, instilling confidence, and ensuring team members have the necessary technical and tactical
expertise. Effective team members know the standards and strive to meet and exceed them.

ADAPT TO DEMANDING CHALLENGES
1-24. The Army's operational requirements are changing. Teams react to a wide range of potential missions.
Team building develops agility and adaptability by focusing on training events and exercises that require
creative solutions. Leaders develop a team's ability to focus and concentrate as the team’s environment
changes. Effective teams are flexible and able to adapt to changing conditions.

LEARN FROM THEIR EXPERIENCES AND DEVELOP PRIDE IN THEIR ACCOMPLISHMENTS
1-25. Effective teams celebrate their successes together, just as they identify the special performances and
contributions of each individual. Teams look upon first-time mistakes as opportunities for learning, rather
than criticism and punishment. Teamwork reflects the pride in the outcomes of the team. Team members
honor the contribution that each member makes to the total work of the team, which develops pride
throughout the team.
1-26. The Armed Forces of the United States—including every military organization to the lowest level—
are a team. Deterring adversaries and winning the Nation’s wars are the team’s common goals. While there

1-4

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Fundamentals of Team Building

are many different types and varieties of teams, the Army functions with two categories of teams: internal
and external. (See appendix B-3 of JP 1 for a discussion of professionalism and teamwork.)

CATEGORIES OF TEAMS
1-27. The Army is a team of teams composed of numerous organizations with one overarching common
mission: win the nation’s wars. Brigade combat teams, command teams, planning teams, and fire teams are
just a few examples of teams. Each of these is a team established through a permanent organizational
structure or temporarily selected for a specified mission. Members of the Army are familiar with teams in
the traditional context of squads, platoons, companies, or battalions. Team members share the same values,
interests, experiences, training, climate, and Army culture in these intact organizations.
1-28. There are two categories of teams in the Army that leaders, Soldiers, and Depart of the Army
Civilians are part of and participate in. These are internal teams and external teams. All military teams fall
into these two categories according to the commander task of the mission command warfighting function,
“Develop teams, both within their own organizations and with joint, interagency, and multinational
partners.” Team members may be members or leaders in one or both categories of teams simultaneously,
depending on the operation. (See ADRP 6-0 for a detailed discussion of mission command and the mission
command warfighting function.)

INTERNAL TEAMS
1-29. Internal teams are teams comprised of leaders, Soldiers, and Department of the Army Civilians
assigned to a specific unit or organization. Internal teams are the most common types of teams. These teams
do not include individuals from outside organizations, unified action partners, or other nations. Higher
headquarters assign members of these teams to the organization. Army squads, platoons, companies,
battalions, brigades, and divisions are all examples of internal teams.
1-30. Internal teams have leaders who possess formal leadership authority by virtue of their assignment to
positions of responsibility. Team leaders in a command position have authority through the Uniform Code
of Military Justice and promote team efficiency and effectiveness through lawful orders and directives.
Team members of internal teams have distinct roles and responsibilities assigned to them by virtue of rank,
grade, expertise, and military occupational specialty. Internal teams accomplish specific missions or tasks
and typically have an established structure. Each team member has a specific role that contributes to the
goal of the team.

EXTERNAL TEAMS
1-31. External teams are teams whose members are from different organizations, cultures, agencies, or
backgrounds and who bring specific knowledge, skills, and attitudes to the team. Most leaders do not have
the option to select their team members. They must be prepared to build and develop the team with the
assigned members. These teams have members with different expertise and can cross boundaries such as
distance, time zones, functions, or cultures. Some examples of external teams include a security force
assistance team, a working group, or a provincial reconstruction team. In external teams, the members most
often do not have authority over one another, come from different cultures and levels of experience, and
may have separate agendas. They usually work by influencing and co-opting others through strong
relationships and mutual benefits.
1-32. The mission, situation, and geographic location dictate who is on an external team. Team members
represent a parent agency, organization, or country and interact with other team members to accomplish a
common mission or objective. The joint and multinational nature of operations requires leaders to build
teams from internal personnel and build teams with external unified action partners. Unified action partners
are those military forces, governmental and nongovernmental organizations, and elements of the private
sector with whom Army forces plan, coordinate, synchronize, and integrate during the conduct of
operations. (ADRP 3-0) As such, members of external teams may include—

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

1-5

Chapter 1









Members from other Services (joint).
Military or civilian personnel from other nations.
Department of the Army Civilians.
Interagency civilian personnel.
Nongovernmental organization personnel.
Community officials.
Civilian contractors.

1-33. Uniting all the diverse capabilities necessary to achieve success in operations requires collaborative
and cooperative efforts that focus those capabilities toward a common goal. Unified action is the
synchronization, coordination, and/or integration of the activities of governmental and nongovernmental
entities with military operations to achieve unity of effort (JP 1). Where militaries demand unity of
command (the operations of all forces under a single responsible commander who has the requisite authority
to direct and employ those forces in pursuit of a common purpose), the challenge for building teams with
unified action partners is to forge unity of effort.
1-34. Unity of effort is coordination and cooperation toward common objectives, even if the participants are
not necessarily part of the same command or organization, which is the product of successful unified action.
(JP 1) Unity of effort can only be achieved through close, continuous interagency and interdepartmental
coordination and cooperation. During multinational operations and interagency coordination, unity of
command may not be possible, but the requirement for unity of effort becomes paramount. Command is
central to all military action, and unity of command is central to unity of effort. However, in instances where
unity of command is not possible, coordination is central to unity of effort. Achieving an effective team
results from the relationships forged between those team members. External teams are discussed in detail in
appendix B.

ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1-35. A team consists of two components—a team leader and team members. Each component has roles
and responsibilities in the formation, enrichment, and sustainment of the team. Paragraphs 1-36 through
1-81 provide a discussion of the roles and responsibilities of both team leaders and team members.

TEAM LEADERS
1-36. The team leader is the individual who provides guidance, instruction, and direction to a group of
individuals to achieve a common goal. The leader enables the team to work together. Dynamic leaders build
groups into teams and help personnel understand the fundamentals of team building. This type of leader
knows how to build teams and set the stage for team success by establishing a positive atmosphere. Team
leaders set goals to strengthen team connections, sense of purpose, commitment, and communication. Team
leaders create an environment that fosters teamwork, promotes cohesion, and encourages initiative.
1-37. The team leader has a distinct and critical role in developing effective teams. Some of the
responsibilities of a team leader include (but are not limited to)—
 Establishing a positive climate.
 Creating a shared vision and team identity.
 Providing clearly stated goals.
 Establishing roles and responsibilities.
 Establishing an environment of collaboration and dialogue.
 Establishing an environment that embraces learning.
 Knowing the strengths and weaknesses of team members.

Establishing a Positive Climate
1-38. Team leaders create the atmosphere, or climate, in which people work. The climate relates to the
leader’s values, skills, and actions. Team leaders influence performance by cultivating a supportive

1-6

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Fundamentals of Team Building

environment. In a positive climate, the team leader builds and maintains interpersonal trust and team
cohesion. The team leader inspires, motivates, and guides the team towards accomplishing a common goal
through cooperative efforts.
1-39. Team leaders must create a positive climate where people on the team feel motivated to complete the
required tasks. Team members need to be heard, appreciated, and feel they are part of the team. Creating a
positive climate involves key skills that help team leaders earn the respect of their team members. It is
important to recognize that responsibility for building an effective team does not reside only with the team
leader. Everyone on the team is responsible for how the team functions.
1-40. A positive climate develops from people’s shared perceptions and attitudes of how their team
operates on a daily basis. A climate of trust is established when the norms and values of the team create a
positive, mutually beneficial environment. Team leaders establish and maintain positive expectations and
attitudes that produce the setting for a positive climate and effective work behaviors. Some actions that can
build a positive climate include—
 Communicating a sense of vision or focus.
 Maintaining focus in training.
 Establishing, modeling, and enforcing high, attainable, and clearly understood standards.
 Allowing team members freedom to exercise initiative.
 Establishing accountability at the appropriate level.
 Showing confidence in team members, seeking their ideas, and making decisions together.
 Encouraging and rewarding prudent risk-taking and accepting honest mistakes.
 Demonstrating concern for team members' welfare.
 Achieving high performance through positive motivation and rewards.
 Enforcing ethical standards.
1-41. A positive climate instills a sense of mutual trust, discipline, community, self-respect, and morale.
Effective leaders demonstrate a sincere concern for their team’s welfare. This contributes to a positive
climate more than anything else a leader does. (See FM 6-22 for a discussion of additional leader actions
that can establish a positive climate.)

Creating Shared Vision and Team Identity
1-42. One key element of building teams is creating a shared vision and team identity that all team members
understand. This vision sets a common direction and focus for the entire team. Team leaders are responsible
for developing and communicating that vision, planning the team's mission to match the vision, determining
how people will function together, and then fine-tuning the vision over time. As long as there is a shared
vision, the team is more likely to perform at an effective level and accomplish the mission. Teams with
shared understanding of the vision and purpose have better coordination and less conflict than teams that do
not. Shared vision exists when team members have a common understanding of—
 The overall mission or objective.
 The goals of the mission.
 Strategies for reaching the goals.
 Team members’ strengths and weaknesses.
 Values and preferences of team as a whole and among the individual members.
 The roles each member will play.
1-43. Creating a shared team identity involves discussing and determining the team's purpose, values,
strengths, and limitations. It involves understanding that every team member’s skill-sets contribute to the
team. Every member of the team has a role in creating the team identity. The techniques described in
paragraphs 1-44 through 1-49 are available for use by any team leader, team members, or teams to help
create and foster a shared team identity.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

1-7

Chapter 1

Fit the Team Identity to the Organization and its Leadership
1-44. A team’s purpose and identity is associated with the organizational context where the team works.
Therefore, it is important to recognize and discuss what processes and outcomes will fit or work within the
organizational context. What the team does, what the team’s activity actually looks like, and what the team
can offer depends heavily on the expectations of the internal organization or external organizations. It is
also dependent upon what the larger organizational culture and senior leadership want and will support.
Understanding the team’s organizational context is a key aspect in the development of the team’s identity.
The team identity is also based on the support the team receives from senior leaders. Team members of
permanent or longer term teams may find that the team’s purpose and mission evolves over time as the
organizational leaders change, both within the team and the larger organization. In addition, as team
members of a team changes, the team’s identity will also evolve and change.
Recognize Individual Expertise
1-45. A part of creating the team’s identity is to understand the unique skills, characteristics, knowledge,
and experiences each team member possesses. There are some strategies and techniques for uncovering the
background and expertise of team members:
 Each team member provides a biographical sketch.
 Leaders provide team members the opportunity to describe who they are and what experiences
and perspectives they bring to the team. (For example, one activity could be for team members to
describe in three minutes or less what they have done over the past five years.)
Discussing “Who Are We” As A Team
1-46. Answering the questions, “Who are we as a team?” and “What unique value does this team offer?”
are critical when creating a team identity. A team should spend time sharing ideas about these topics. Team
members should understand why they are participating on the team. They should also understand how the
team strategy helps the organization attain its goals. Team members define their team’s importance in
accomplishing the mission. The team members then understand where the team fits in the overall context of
the organization.
Develop a Team Statement
1-47. Working together, team members develop a statement that captures the team’s identity. The statement
should only be a few sentences long. This statement is useful when communicating with other individuals
with the larger organization or outside the organization. It helps to understand the value the team can and
will offer.
Maintain a Team History
1-48. Documenting the team’s history is important, and it is a great technique for understanding the team.
Teams can create an informal one-page charter or a team handbook. Leaders post and distribute the team
history to all team members. It provides a resource for team members to periodically review, update, and
provide detail to as the team matures. For example, a team may create a handbook that contains statements
and graphical representations of the team’s mission, the team’s values, key team members, and their unique
strengths. This handbook would be a resource for team members to refer to or share with others in or
outside the team.
Reevaluate the Team’s Identity Periodically
1-49. For many reasons, the team’s identity evolves and changes over time. This is particularly the case if
the team is together for a sustained period. Changes in organizational leadership or the addition of new team
members are factors that may contribute to the need for change, adaptation, and evolution over time. During
these times, it is a good technique to revisit what the team discussed and agreed upon as an identity early in
the team building process with respect to the team’s central purpose and mission. Then, the team members
should review and discuss how the team has changed.

1-8

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Fundamentals of Team Building

Providing Clearly Stated Goals
1-50. The team’s mission describes its overall direction and goals. Team leaders clarify and establish these
goals. A goal should be clear and state a specific performance objective in concrete language, so that team
members know if they reached the performance objective. Team members need to know what the tasks or
goals are and how to reach those goals. Involving team members in goal setting increases their commitment
and work ethic toward achieving the goal.
1-51. Quick wins are small-scale goals that provide a means to establish a team leader’s credibility and to
lay the foundation for trust. They must be feasible, attainable, and important to the team’s mission or
purpose. They initiate momentum and lay the foundation for achieving long-term goals and objectives.
1-52. To achieve optimal success, a goal should be challenging and attainable, and it should make members
feel that the performance objective makes a difference. The team’s goals should be related to the mission,
but not be too specific. When goals are too specific, innovation is less likely to occur because team
members have little freedom to experiment. However, goals should not be too challenging, because people
tend to reject unrealistic and unattainable goals. Clear objectives and agreed upon goals enhance motivation
and problem solving. It is important to give feedback regarding achievement of goals.

Establishing Roles and Responsibilities
1-53. Clearly established roles and responsibilities are important to identify both individual and group
capabilities and developmental needs. It is important for leaders to understand their team members’ interests
to use their team members’ knowledge, skills, and abilities to work towards their developmental needs.
Designating, clarifying, and de-conflicting roles will improve a team’s performance by removing ambiguity
and confusion. Each team member should know who is supposed to do what, at what time, and in what
location.
1-54. Team leaders have some flexibility in how they assign individual team members. It is important to
match task requirements with the capabilities, interests, and strengths of team members. Team leaders
should also consider the requirements for problem solving, organization, communication, and social skills
that may be needed to keep the team working productively. One method for assigning roles and
responsibilities is a four-step process in which each step builds upon the last step:
 Identify the tasks.
 Identify the required skills.
 Identify team member skills.
 Assign the appropriate roles and responsibilities.
This process is discussed in paragraphs 1-55 through 1-58.
Identify the Tasks
1-55. Team leaders begin by considering their team’s mission and goals, which enables team leaders to
solidify their understanding of what the team accomplishes. Understanding the overall team purpose allows
team leaders to plan the details. After gaining a good understanding of the team’s mission and goals, team
leaders work back from the desired end state to identify all the tasks and milestones to achieve the desired
end state. One simple way to do this is by using a work (troop-to-task) breakdown chart. The team leader
then defines the key activities required.
Identify the Required Skills
1-56. This step identifies the skills required by team members to assign responsibility for roles based on the
tasks involved. A simple way to identify the skills required is by listing each task identified and then listing
what the required skills are for the task. This gives team leaders a good record of the skills needed in the
team and will eventually enable them to find gaps within the team following the next step.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

1-9

Chapter 1

Identify Team Member Skills
1-57. During this step, the team leader identifies each team member’s skills and work history to determine
the experience level and character attributes of all team members. Once team leaders know what each team
member is capable of, they can match team members to suitable roles and responsibilities.
Assign the Appropriate Roles and Responsibilities
1-58. Team leaders do not assign team members roles or give them responsibility for a task just because
they want it or volunteer for it. Team leaders ensure that the information they have collected on team
members is the basis for assigning roles and responsibilities. This will ensure the team is effective based on
its needs and its available skills.

Establishing an Environment of Collaboration and Dialogue
1-59. Team leaders should create an atmosphere where team members share ideas, think critically, express
creative thought, and challenge ideas. Effective team leaders establish a collaborative and trusting
environment. Collaboration and dialogue create the shared understanding required for successful
operations. Collaboration is working together toward common goals by sharing knowledge and building
consensus. Dialogue is a way to collaborate that involves the candid exchange of ideas or opinions among
participants that encourages frank discussions of areas of disagreement. Collaborative teams focus on
learning, identify gaps in performance or processes, and plan for improvement. Collaborative team
members are prepared, behave in a professional manner, and make a conscious effort to show appreciation
of other team members.
1-60. Through collaboration, teams establish personal connections with one another to create shared
understanding. It is important for team leaders to foster debate to develop deeper understanding. Team
leaders emphasize continual learning, creative thought, and testing ideas. Effective collaboration and
dialogue are not possible unless team leaders ensure dialogue occurs. They do this by demonstrating the
confidence necessary to admit that they do not know everything, can be wrong, and have something to
learn. Team leaders establish a climate where collaboration and dialogue occur throughout the organization
through personal example, coaching, and mentorship.
1-61. There are several useful techniques teams use to build stronger, more collaborative relationships.
Team leaders may use the techniques listed in paragraphs 1-62 through 1-70 for strengthening relationships
between team members.
Align the Team Mission, Goals, and Expectations
1-62. Team relationships begin to degrade when team members lack understanding of the mission, goals,
priorities, and performance standards. There are several reasons why such situations occur. The team may
have never had the opportunity to sit down and openly discuss the standards and expectations of the tasks or
mission. To compound the problem, team leaders sometimes assume they have supplied their teams with
complete information on tasks, assignments, responsibilities, or missions because there were not any
questions from the team members. Alternatively, team members may communicate their understandings in a
language that is vague or misleading to the team leader or other team members.
1-63. An example of this could be asking someone to complete a task “as soon as possible”. This does not
give the other team members a suspense date or time for task completion. “As soon as possible” means
something different to each individual. At the same time, team members may use unclear language when
confirming their understanding of the information. Finally, the team leader’s expectations of the tasks and
mission may have changed significantly over time as the information has changed from higher echelons.
Team leaders should ensure they communicate changed information to the team so everyone understands.
1-64. The most effective tool to gain alignment is the team meeting. It is beneficial and useful to set aside a
team meeting to negotiate critical issues for team review. Every team’s mission is unique, so the number of
meetings is dependent upon the team and its mission.

1-10

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Fundamentals of Team Building

Reflect on Each Team Member’s Strengths
1-65. Another technique to build collaboration within a team is for leaders to ask team members to reflect
on the following question: “Who has skills and experience that could be of use to other team members on
tasks or projects?” Next, the team leader asks each team member to share with the team what that team
member has identified. The team leader ensures the other team members remain silent and hold their
comments until everyone has had their chance to speak. This activity accomplishes a couple of things. It
provides team members with solid affirmation of their contribution to the team. It also provides a
constructive way for each team member to solicit help and assistance from the other team members.
Recall Previous Collaborative Successes
1-66. Recalling collaborative successes is a useful technique for building future collaboration within a
team. During this drill, team members identify previous situations they view as examples of successful team
collaboration. This drill helps to encourage team members to ask themselves, “What is it that we, as a team,
do differently when we are performing at our collective best?” and “What has worked well in the past for
the team?” The team can use this information to look for ways to replicate it in the future. It is important
that teams take the time to pause occasionally and celebrate small wins as they occur. This celebration could
be as small as taking five minutes to recognize the accomplishment with everyone on the team. Teams
should also recognize when they have completed important milestones for a long-term goal. The important
thing is to bring every team member’s attention to what is working in the team’s area of collaboration.
1-67. It is a challenge for team leaders to establish a collaborative and trusting environment where team
members feel safe arguing, questioning, thinking creatively, and sharing ideas openly. Team members
refrain from offering alternative ideas out of fear of others judging them negatively or fear of being wrong.
The team leader should remove these barriers by creating an atmosphere where members are comfortable
challenging ideas without fear of rebuke. The team leader also reinforces the view that an attack on an idea
is not an attack on the person, and that the debate is to develop a deeper understanding.
Engage in Self Reflection
1-68. Team leaders reflect on the behaviors and characteristics they exhibit as a leader, and whether those
behaviors will work well for the team. There is no one right way to lead a team. Most team leaders have
probably taken a variety of leadership assessments throughout their careers. It can be helpful to review and
reflect on how that leadership style will function with the demands of leading a team.
Seek Feedback from the Team
1-69. Team leaders seek feedback regarding their leadership style and the specific practices and behaviors
that best support the team’s work. The team leader chooses to seek feedback from the full team or
individually from team members. Informal conversation (“How am I doing? What can I do better?”), or
more formal written or computer-based formats are a few ways to seek feedback. Regardless of the method
the team leader chooses, eliciting feedback will serve a number of important purposes. It shows that the
leader is open to the team’s feedback and ideas for improvement, which will help to build trust within the
team. This feedback is a basis for reflecting on one’s leadership practices and adjusting those practices to
better support individual team members and the team as a whole.
Model What the Team Should Do
1-70. One way to help lead a team is to model and demonstrate the desired team behaviors. Effective team
leaders model correct attitude, performance, and conduct.

Establishing an Environment that Embraces Learning
1-71. Team leaders should establish a learning environment. This type of environment will encourage team
members to seek professional and personal opportunities for learning. Teams that have a positive learning
culture are eager to understand new areas and current situations. (For a detailed discussion of how leaders
create this environment, see ADRP 6-22, FM 6-22, and ATP 5-0.1.)

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

1-11

Chapter 1

Knowing the Strengths and Weaknesses of Team Members
1-72. Team leaders identify strengths and weaknesses of their team, which strengthens the Army
organization. Each team member brings unique skills, qualities, experiences, biases, and agendas to the
team. As team leaders develop strategies for reaching goals, they should understand each team member’s
strengths and weaknesses, values and preferences, and the role that each team member plays.

TEAM MEMBERS
1-73. Effective team members are disciplined, task-oriented, and have a strong work ethic. They are
open-minded, adaptable, and eager to learn. As a successful and capable member of a team, each person
develops individual self-awareness to be a productive member of a team. This self-awareness allows team
members to identify the positive attributes they seek in themselves and in other team members.

POSITIVE ATTRIBUTES
1-74. An exceptional team member has enthusiasm for the organization and the mission. These team
members bring a positive attitude to the team and inspire others to do the same. Other positive attributes
include being a reliable, trustworthy person. Reliable team members consistently get the work done. They
work hard, follow through, and always deliver a good performance. Reliable team members are active
participants who prepare and engage in the team’s work. Team members who function as active participants
take the initiative to help make things happen. They volunteer for assignments to accomplish the mission.

NEGATIVE ATTRIBUTES
1-75. Some team members are especially critical of others and continually try to bring a team down. They
will often take pleasure in the failure of others. They often look on the negative side of things, and will be
the first to criticize others. This type of criticism is not meant to improve team efforts, but the overly critical
team member seeks to hurt other people’s feelings to make themselves feel better. Some other attributes of
team players that are negative include being selfish, controlling, and egotistical. These are just some of the
negative attributes that team members might display. (See chapter 4, manage conflict, for techniques for
dealing with a team member who displays this type of behavior.)

TEAM MEMBER RESPONSIBILITIES
1-76. Team members understand what they are able to contribute and understand the individual
responsibilities that make people effective members of a team. Some of those responsibilities include—
 Building relationships.
 Demonstrating flexibility and adaptability.
 Cooperating with other team members.
 Having a willingness to help others.
 Respecting others.

Building Relationships
1-77. One of the most important responsibilities of a team member is to form and maintain solid working
relationships with other members of the team. Team members establish a personal rapport with each other
by finding common history, experiences, or interests. Cohesive, effective teams are adept at building
relationships and overcoming obstacles. The team’s trust improves as members build relationships and see
the skills and work ethic each member brings to the team.

Demonstrating Flexibility and Adaptability
1-78. Teams handle changing conditions and often create changes themselves. Good team players adapt to
uncertain situations. In addition, a flexible team member can consider different points of views and

1-12

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Fundamentals of Team Building

compromise when needed. Effective team players have confidence in their opinions, but consider what
others have to say. (See chapter 4 for a detailed discussion of adaptability.)

Cooperating with Other Team Members
1-79. Cooperation is the act of working with others and acting together to accomplish a mission. Effective
team players have the responsibility to work this way automatically. Good team players, despite the
differences they may have with other team members concerning style and perspective, figure out ways to
work together. They take initiative to offer help to other team members.

Having a Willingness to Help Others
1-80. Team members demonstrate support for one another as they accomplish their missions. They
exemplify a sense of team loyalty and both encourage the team as a whole and help individual team
members who have trouble.

Respecting Others
1-81. Team members treat fellow team members with dignity and respect. Every member of the team
demonstrates understanding and provides support to other team members. Effective teams also have
members with a sense of humor and who know how to have fun, but they never have fun at someone else's
expense.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

1-13

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 2

Formation Stage
Effective teams operate in an environment where there is trust, commitment, and
communication. This chapter discusses the formation stage of team building
beginning with a description of how to assemble a team. It then discusses the
importance of building trust, and it concludes with a discussion of how
communication contributes to team effectiveness.
2-1. The formation stage is critical to the success of the team. During this stage, team members build
confidence and trust in each other. Team members show characteristic behaviors in each stage, and each
phase has unique highs and lows, as individuals assume their roles and come to a greater understanding of
themselves and each other.
2-2. In the formation stage, team members may not know one another very well. Communication among
members is functional and noncontroversial. The team is thinking short term and members’ focus is more on
the task at hand than on process improvement. Team members may have conflicting opinions and different
approaches to solving problems. They may even resist the team leader as the team develops. Strong team
leaders address the needs of team members at each stage to minimize conflict and reach higher performance
levels quickly.
2-3. There are three critical components of the formation stage of team building:
 Assemble the team.
 Build trust.
 Communicate effectively.

ASSEMBLE THE TEAM
2-4. In the early stage of a team’s development, leaders face the task of assembling the individuals who
will comprise the team. In most cases, leaders will not have the opportunity to select some or all of the team
members who will become part of the team. When operating internally, leaders select team members, but
this is rare when working with joint, interagency, and multinational partners.
2-5. Whatever the involvement is in forming the team, team leaders determine how to organize a
collection of individuals into an effective team. To assemble a group of individuals into a team, leaders
manage a number of considerations. To assemble a team, a team leader must be prepared to—
 Integrate new team members.
 Get the team ready to work.
 Understand team dynamics.
 Manage the team’s workflow.

INTEGRATE NEW TEAM MEMBERS
2-6. The reception and orientation steps during the formation stage are important to build an effective
team. Teams work best when new members quickly feel that they are a part of the team. How thoroughly
and thoughtfully the team leader welcomes and orients new team members influences how quickly they
develop trust and commitment. Teams build trust and commitment from the beginning by sharing the team’s
vision and ensuring that team members understand their roles and responsibilities. There are two critical
steps to integrating new team members—reception and orientation.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

2-1

Chapter 2

Reception
2-7. The reception step establishes a cohesive team, and it establishes a positive first impression of the
team. The reception step should be such that the new member wants to become part of the team. Reception
includes the team leader welcoming the new member to the organization. The team-building process starts
with reception and integration counseling. Reception and integration counseling identifies and helps fix any
problems or concerns that new members have, and it explains the standards. It clarifies responsibilities and
sends the message that the leaders of the team care. Reception and integration counseling should begin
immediately upon arrival, so the new team member quickly integrates into the organization.
2-8. Developing a standardized plan for all new members ensures that all team members receive the same
information. Before a new team member's arrival, team leaders can send a welcome letter including sponsor
information and in-processing information. Once new team members arrive, they will begin reception. This
includes assignment to a specific duty position, timely and accurate in-processing to the installation, and
issue of additionally authorized personal equipment.

Orientation
2-9. Orientation takes place after most administrative in-processing is complete. An effective orientation
program is essential. New team members have many questions, and a well-designed orientation program
will help get them integrated into the team quickly and efficiently. During orientation, a new member meets
the team, learns the workplace layout and schedule, and learns about the environment. The orientation step
communicates team standards and values, goals and missions, and should include the team’s history.
2-10. The orientation step starts new members out in the right direction. Whether the orientation is
conducted with a group or individually, it is important that the team leader spend time in a face-to-face
conversation with the new team members. Getting to know each team member establishes the trust
necessary for team cohesiveness. Orientation solidifies new members’ relationship with the team. It fuels
their enthusiasm and guides their steps into a positive relationship with other team members. If done poorly,
reception and orientation leave new team members with concern about their future with the team. A good
experience joining the team makes it easier for the new member to fit in and to contribute to the team effort.

Socialization Process
2-11. New team members go through a socialization process. During socialization, they learn what the team
expects of them, and they learn accepted norms and standards. The socialization process begins before a
new team member reports to the unit. Corresponding with a new arrival gives the team leaders the
opportunity to explain team values and standards. As part of integrating into the team, new members are
individually committed to the team and internalize the values of the team. This helps them establish a bond
with other members of the team.
2-12. The first goal of socialization is commitment, and it is comparable to the amount of selfless service a
team member contributes to the team effort. The second goal of socialization is for new team members to
adopt and internalize the values and attitudes of the team. Innovation is the third goal of the socialization
process. If a leader demands too much conformity, innovation is stifled. Conformity may lead to boredom,
loss of focus, over familiarity with tasks, contempt, and ultimately, defeat. Recognizing when to conform
and when to be innovative is critical to the socialization process. The fourth goal of socialization is for the
team member to develop a cohesive bond with the team. This bond is the ultimate goal of the socialization
process.
2-13. One way to socialize new team members is to provide them with rewarding jobs that are challenging,
but not impossible. This provides them the opportunity to learn new skills and advance to the next skill
level. Another important way to socialize new members is to establish social support systems. Joining a new
team can be an uncomfortable and stressful experience. Most new team members are hesitant to bring
problems to the team leader. There are additional actions team leaders take to socialize individuals into their
teams. Team leaders—

2-2

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Formation Stage






Express acceptance so that new members know the team leader accepts them.
Create supportive group expectations.
Communicate positive expectations.
Clarify the team member's role on the team.

GET THE TEAM READY TO WORK
2-14. Getting ready involves learning how the team will work together. It also involves lining up resources
and tools and configuring the team’s physical work areas. To get a team ready to work entails helping team
members prepare their minds for the work ahead. Two of the components to get the team ready to work
are—
 Prepare the team for likely challenges.
 Prepare the mental workspace.
2-15. Team leaders might face some challenging factors. The team leader provides the team with some
direction without defining or prescribing a set of processes the team follows. The difference is providing
guidance versus providing rules. While it is important to avoid dictating what the process is, the team needs
an awareness of how the team’s activities will unfold.

Prepare the Team For Likely Challenges
2-16. Another challenge is to understand that there are practical considerations that impose on the team’s
work. Teams have to work with time, personnel, materials, equipment, and information constraints. It is
important to balance the team’s recognition of these constraints against the team’s needs. There are
techniques to help team leaders with getting the team ready to work. They include—
 Clearly articulating the team’s goals to provide the team with a sense of the team’s goals. This
helps the team manage the uncertainty it faces during the mission.
 Developing a charter document to capture the team’s mission and goals and to promote shared
understanding between the team leader and the team.
 Providing a process outline or standard operating procedures. While the team leader avoids
providing too much structure, there is significant value in providing the team with a general
process outline it can follow to get started.
 Providing examples of previous problems or situations. Team leaders and other team members
offer examples of previous problems or situations that they have tackled in the past and provide
approaches to dealing with them now.
 Developing ground rules for team interaction. Team members work together as a team to develop
and establish a set of ground rules. Then, the team documents and posts the team’s ground rules
as a reminder.
2-17. Team leaders prepare the team for the challenges they are likely to experience while working together
on a complex, unfamiliar mission or problem set. Team leaders explain that it is not unusual for teams to
experience periods of significant ambiguity and confusion. Team leaders remind their teams that confusion
can be informative and a sign of progress. One technique that team leaders have used to prepare for the
probable moments of confusion and frustration is to tell the team to expect confusion. Team leaders
describe the confusion and disorientation that occurs when working on complex, unfamiliar problems.
2-18. Team leaders let the team know that there will be times when their understanding of the mission or
problem seems to fall apart and when members feel as though they are making little progress. Also, team
leaders note that these confusing moments can be an exciting time where significant learning happens and
team members achieve new insights. Setting this expectation can help prepare team members and provide
reassurance when team members find themselves getting frustrated.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

2-3

Chapter 2

Prepare the Mental Workspace
2-19. Team members think and explore problems in different ways. Making sense of a problem requires
many team members to adapt their typical ways of thinking, and to think critically, creatively, holistically,
reflectively, visually, and from multiple perspectives. This allows team members to see important
connections and influences and to articulate key aspects of a problem.
2-20. Team leaders should know how team members think and approach problems. This helps the team
members with critical thinking skills to begin reflecting on and becoming more aware of the perspectives
and attitudes they bring to the team. Team leaders should also help team members become more confident
and aware of their own abilities to be innovative and creative. This is important for team members who are
resistant to different ways of thinking and exploring problems because they believe they are not creative. In
exploring problems as a team, team members should engage in different ways of thinking. Some examples
are included in paragraphs 2-21 through 2-24.
Think About Thinking
2-21. Metacognitive thinking reflects a person’s awareness of that person’s own thinking style and
associated biases. When teams reflect upon and are explicit about how they think about a problem, it allows
them to understand what they might not be considering. Team members should reflect on alternative points
of view that might be important for appreciating the complexity of a problem set.
Think Holistically
2-22. The team reflects on how pieces of a problem set relate to and influence each other, and how the
components connect in the larger context. Holistic thinking is integrative and important for helping teams
break away from a linear cause-and-effect way of addressing a problem.
Understand Others’ Motivations
2-23. Team members should try to understand the thoughts and motivations of others and examine a
problem from another person’s or group’s point of view. This can be important in operations where the
culture of the population is considerably different than the culture of the team. Taking the perspective of
others can help team members to understand important connections and rationale that they may otherwise
miss.
Think Visually
2-24. Visual thinking involves thinking and communicating using images and pictures instead of using
language and text alone. Individuals and teams engage in visual thinking by using graphics and imagery to
represent ideas and to explore the problem space.
2-25. Learning as a team involves a mix of individual study and reflection mixed with collaborative
dialogue. This includes knowledge sharing, capturing insights, analyzing concepts, and creating knowledge
products. Teams approach a problem set, develop an appreciation for its complexity, and identify potential
solutions. Some additional techniques include—
 Using starter questions to help the team begin to frame (or reframe) the problem set.
 Identifying a set of topics to explore.
 Identifying key issues, learning, insights, and questions.
 Considering appointing a red team representative.
 Encouraging the team to view moments of confusion as informative.
 Encouraging task conflict and energetic engagement with ideas.
 Recognizing when the team needs a break.
 Respecting silence.

2-4

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Formation Stage

UNDERSTAND TEAM DYNAMICS
2-26. A central aspect of the team leader’s role when assembling the team is understanding the internal
workings of the team. While all team members monitor the team’s process and dynamics, the team leader
helps the team maintain a positive and productive tone and maintain progress. This includes understanding
diverse personalities and competing personal agendas. This also requires anticipating when conflicts or
clashes could arise due to differences in personalities. Being prepared to handle these challenges facilitates
a sense of team cohesion and productivity. These techniques can help teams with their team dynamics by—
 Discussing and establishing the dynamic for the team.
 Learning about team members.
 Addressing difficult personalities.
 Monitoring and reflecting on the team’s dynamic.

Discussing and Establishing the Dynamic for the Team
2-27. Early in the team’s development, the team considers and discusses the type of atmosphere and tone
the team has. Team members should consider the dynamic they might have as a team. The team should
work together to articulate and create a set of norms that all members can agree to. Explicitly raising these
questions as discussion topics can help set norms and expectations across the team and give team members
a baseline for monitoring themselves and their interactions.

Learning About the Team Members
2-28. Understanding the individuals comprising the team can be helpful for a variety of purposes. The team
leader interprets the actions and behaviors of individual team members. It is then easier to match individuals
to tasks that best suit their skill sets. Team leaders anticipate barriers to progress. It is especially important
for team leaders to understand and anticipate preferred modes of communicating among team members and
understand different styles of learning and processing information.

Addressing Difficult Personalities
2-29. There are many options for addressing a team member with a difficult personality. Team leaders may
use a direct approach and confront the person or have a private conversation with the individual. Another
strategy is to remind the team of the ground rules to which the members had agreed. In extreme cases, team
leaders remove the difficult team member from the team and seek out a replacement. (See chapter 4 for a
detailed discussion of managing this type of conflict.)

Monitoring and Reflecting on the Team’s Dynamic
2-30. Team leaders allow time for reflection and team discussion on different work styles, processes, and
internal dynamics. Taking time periodically for these discussions can ultimately lead to gains in the team’s
productivity. As part of the reflection process, team leaders identify and note any common factors that the
team has noticed that tend to trigger unproductive conflict. Team leaders can discuss with team members
how to avoid or minimize those triggers.

Challenges to Team Dynamics
2-31. A key challenge in managing the team’s dynamics is awareness of the diverse personalities within the
team. Diversity is important and advantageous for the team, but diversity within the team can also lead to
considerable challenges. Another major challenge involves ensuring that everyone’s ideas and perspectives
are considered. Some team members are comfortable speaking up and sharing their views. Other team
members may be more comfortable listening than talking. On teams where certain people dominate the
conversation, access to the full range of viewpoints and perspectives can be reduced. It is everyone's
responsibility to create opportunities for those who are less vocal to contribute their ideas. In most cases,
the strength of the team is dependent on the diverse skill sets of each individual member. (See paragraphs
4-28 to 4-32 for an additional discussion of team diversity.)

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

2-5

Chapter 2

MANAGE THE TEAM’S WORKFLOW
2-32. Effective leaders are able to observe their team and recognize when team members are frustrated or
unfocused. In these moments, effective team leaders recognize the need for a change in activity and shift the
team’s attention in a way that creates opportunities for members to be most engaged. Monitoring the team
requires the team leader to consciously step back at moments to assess the team’s overall tone and energy
level. Paragraphs 2-33 through 2-35 discuss some techniques to help team leaders to manage the team's
workflow.

Set Expectations
2-33. Teams work collectively to create a schedule and expected flow of activity. The schedule includes
key milestones for work to continue to a next phase. While the schedule is flexible, it provides members
with a vision of what to expect and how to manage their productivity. This will help the team anticipate and
mentally prepare for work.

Know Indicators of Mental Fatigue
2-34. There can be indications that the team needs to restructure its activity. Some cues that indicate it is
time to shift activities include low energy, excessive yawning, eyes glazing over, or fidgeting. Some other
clues may not be as obvious. One indicator is when the team is stuck generating the same ideas, or the
discussion is circular. Another indicator is when there are significant lulls in the discussion, and members
become disagreeable over relatively insignificant issues. Being attuned to these cues helps the team leader
and other team members recognize when the team needs a break, a change in activity, or a different work
setting.

Conduct Periodic Checks on Team Process
2-35. Planning for time to step away from the work itself to discuss how the team is functioning is a way for
team leaders to check on the team. When the team is in the midst of the work itself, it can be easy to forget
about how the team is working together. Regular process checks can be particularly helpful in managing the
team’s workflow and productivity. Process checks do not focus on content. They are discussions about work
style, work processes, and progress toward the team’s goals.

BUILD TRUST
2-36. A key aspect in forming a team is building trust. Trust is the degree of confidence and reliability that
people have in one another. Trust is a belief that another person or group will act or behave in a certain
manner, and it is one of the foundations of successful teams. Trust facilitates a bond between leaders,
Soldiers, and Department of the Army Civilians that enables mission success. In order for the team to work
effectively, members should have established trust with each other. With trust, there is confidence among
the team that the intentions of all members are good. Team members who trust each other are more willing
to resolve differences of opinion and fact. Having trust in each other allows members to suspend any
doubts, concentrate on duties, and accomplish the mission.
2-37. Among the meanings associated with trust is the expectation that a person has a high level of integrity
and dependability. People put themselves at risk because of their confidence that the other person will do
what they expect. Direct experience with each other over time allows team members to develop more
informed, deeper levels of shared trust. This development of trust, combined with building on small
successes, results in improved confidence across the team.
2-38. Successful leaders—and fellow team members—build trust over time by behaving consistently and
predictably and by showing that the needs of the team come before their personal needs. Team leaders have
a key role in building and maintaining a climate of mutual trust within the team. Some techniques to build
trust include—
 Expressing mutual trust in the team.
 Providing opportunities for social interaction.

2-6

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Formation Stage









Taking advantage of breaks.
Facilitating relationship building when receiving new team members.
Increasing difficulty of training sessions.
Recognizing the importance of maintaining or rebuilding trust.
Providing feedback to team members.
Building trust by increasing transparency.
Mitigating distrust.

Expressing Mutual Trust In The Team
2-39. The simple expression of confidence in team members can engender mutual trust. Team leaders
affirm their trust in their team members and in the team with statements such as “I trust you,” or “I have
faith in your judgment and the judgment of the team.”

Providing Opportunities For Social Interaction
2-40. Social events are great opportunities for team members to know one another on a more personal level
and provide a needed reprieve from intense work and discourse. However, social events are not mandatory,
as they can possibly backfire on the trust-building intent.

Taking Advantage Of Breaks
2-41. Breaks provide opportunities for team members to talk about the issues they address in an informal,
non-threatening way. Not only do team members release tension and recharge during breaks, they also get
to know each other, on a professional as well as a personal level. Breaks should be consistent, but team
leaders do not allow breaks to become excessive and have a negative effect on the workload.

Facilitating Relationship Building When Receiving New Team Members
2-42. New team members may arrive at any moment as a replacement for a current team member, to
increase the size of the team, for a specific skill set, or on a temporary basis for a specific task. If possible, it
is helpful to discuss the addition of a new member with the team ahead of time. This prepares the team for
the addition, so team members can integrate the new member into the team. The team leader introduces the
new members to the team by describing their backgrounds, skills, expertise, experiences, and why the new
members are coming to the team. Teams can also consider a version of the personal storytelling activity that
provides the new team members an opportunity to tell the team a little about themselves.

Increasing Difficulty of Training Sessions
2-43. During training, team leaders develop exercises and training situations that increase the difficulty and
complexity of the scenarios as the team becomes familiar with one another. With increased difficulty and
complexity, mutual trust among team members expands, and the team’s comfort level increases. Team
leaders increase the freedom of action permitted to team members and broaden each team member’s range
of authorized action. This indirectly increases mutual trust between the team leader and other team
members.

Recognizing The Importance of Maintaining or Rebuilding Trust
2-44. Attention is often given to mutual trust-building activities. However, maintaining mutual trust or
rebuilding trust after it has been damaged is equally important, and considerable time must be dedicated to
these activities and techniques. Rebuilding trust once it is broken is different and often much more difficult
than building and maintaining mutual trust. If trust is damaged, it takes significant effort and time to mend.
Thus, attention to maintaining good mutual trust is very important. A few ways to support the maintenance
of mutual trust in the team include monitoring and evaluating the level of trust within the team. Team
leaders can discuss the importance of trust in the team and task the team members to monitor trust

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

2-7

Chapter 2

relationships. Team members should actively note or engage the issue when a breakdown in trust is
imminent.

Providing Feedback to Team Members
2-45. Teams who have worked together for a sustained period may find it helpful to discuss the key
strengths and weaknesses for each individual on the team. In other words, what does the team member bring
to the team that offers the greatest benefit, and what does the team member bring that could potentially
harm the team? Discussing these strengths and weaknesses alert the individual team members personally
and as a group, so that the team can make adjustments. Team leaders ensure feedback is constructive and
not personal, as negative feedback has the potential of doing more harm than good.

Building Trust by Increasing Transparency
2-46. When team members have a low level of trust in each other or the team leader, it may be because they
feel the information they need is not being fully shared with them or the entire team. This is particularly
likely to be the case when the team is operating under a high tempo or a stressful combat situation. Under
these conditions, team members become more distrustful of being excluded from the information loop
because of the fast pace of the operations. Team leaders or team members identify the need for greater
informational transparency in this environment.
2-47. If this occurs, team leaders bring the team together and ask all the team members to identify the
recent task, mission, or event on which they would have liked additional information to accomplish their
task better, and any future task, mission, or event where sharing of information will be critical to mission
success. The next step is to come to agreement on an effective strategy for sharing critical information,
taking into consideration limited time and team member’s proper level of security clearance to information.
A reasonable way or technique to do this is to post new information on the team’s shared document sites on
both unclassified and classified sites and ensure every team member has the appropriate access depending
on their clearance level. Team leaders ensure that they distribute important decisions and conclusions from
higher echelons.

Mitigating Distrust
2-48. When team members do not trust each other, they are more likely to hold grudges and find reasons to
avoid spending time together. There are ways that team members can prevent distrust from surfacing within
a team. One way is to foster information sharing. Information sharing facilitates cooperation and
communication between team members. On teams in which distrust might become a problem, it is important
for the team members to prevent information from becoming a tool to leverage advantages over other team
members. Team leaders communicate instructions and expectations clearly to the whole team and try to
avoid giving more information to one team member than another.
2-49. Another way to mitigate distrust among the team is to ensure fairness. Team leaders ensure fairness
and openness by sharing rewards for successes with the whole team. However, treating others fairly does
not necessarily mean treating all team members the same way. Team members encourage each other to trust
one another. To do this, team members encourage the free expression of questions, thoughts, and concerns
and ensure that other team member’s needs are met.

Repairing Trust
2-50. If an incident occurs that breaks trust within a working relationship, team leaders should address the
behaviors that created distrust. Action must be taken immediately after the violation. Each person
responsible for the violation of trust should apologize and explain the violation. These team members
should also be sincere, take action through their own volition, and make sure to show a genuine desire to
earn the person’s trust again. The team leader can ask each party to restate and renegotiate expectations for
one another for the future and agree to the terms.

2-8

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Formation Stage

Identify and Evaluate Barriers to Trust
2-51. There can be obstacles and challenges to building mutual trust. One obstacle to promoting a positive
climate can be the Army culture itself. Army personnel conform to a command structure. However, if teams
operate using the standard Army modes of interaction, many junior members of a team may fear asking
questions. Another obstacle is the time and opportunities for the interaction that building mutual trust
requires. In some teams, members may be working with team members whom they already know and trust.
In other teams, members will likely be working with others for the first time. Having the necessary time and
shared experiences for building mutual trust can be particularly challenging when the team is operating
under time constraints with limited opportunity to develop relationships. This is often the case with a team
that is convened quickly for purposes of crisis response.
2-52. Lastly, integrating external personnel into a team might create challenges to building and maintaining
trust within that team. These personnel may come from organizations and agencies with differing agendas,
different organizational cultures, differing views of the military, and different norms for interacting and
conducting business. All of these differences have the potential to create challenges to trust development
and information sharing within a team.
2-53. Team leaders should recognize barriers to trust during team building. Indicators include
defensiveness, avoiding conflict, ignoring the importance of team membership, and suspicion about the
motivation of other team members. When building trust and respect within working relationships, leaders
should also acknowledge that there might be trust barriers that need to be broken down. This is especially
important when building working relationships across boundaries, as trust barriers may be even stronger and
more persistent.
Inaccurate Information from Others
2-54. People may hear something wrong about someone else and decide they do not want to trust that
individual based on that information. Team members can remedy this by clarifying the inaccurate
information quickly and preventing rumors and misinformation from spreading.
Competence Misjudgments
2-55. Team members may believe that another individual is incompetent or inexperienced and not trust that
person. When appropriate, team leaders highlight team members’ experiences and accomplishments to
change these judgments. This can also build confidence throughout the team.
Absence of Similarities
2-56. When people perceive others as different from themselves, they are less likely to trust them. Team
leaders find ways to identify similarities among team members. They take initiative to find out more about
others and engage them in conversation about similar interests (including food, sports, family activities, and
careers).

TEAM COMMUNICATION
2-57. Communication is the process by which two or more people clearly and accurately exchange
information. It is the exchange of thoughts, messages, or information through words, tone of voice, or body
language. Effective communicators clarify or acknowledge the receipt of information, listen to other team
members, and share their understanding of others. Communication is central to all human behavior, and it is
one of the essential elements of team building. All individuals, especially leaders of teams, should be able to
present information in a manner that is clear and concise to be effective in groups or organizations they
lead. Informal communication, in which team members freely communicate with each other, is also
important to team success. Paragraphs 2-58 through 2-69 discuss some techniques to help teams to
communicate effectively.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

2-9

Chapter 2

ACKNOWLEDGE DIFFERENCES
2-58. Team members acknowledge differences in communication style between themselves and other team
members. Team leaders should encourage all team members to remember that they each have differences in
communication styles. Anticipating variances will help increase awareness of distinctions that may not be
immediately obvious.

UNDERSTAND NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION
2-59. Communication is not just speaking and listening. It is a holistic process including verbal and
non-verbal communication. Body position, gestures, and eye movements reflect a person's feelings as much
as verbal communication. Team members should use non-verbal communication appropriately. Awareness
of non-verbal communication is critical as team members from different cultures may use non-verbal signals
in ways not familiar to all members of the team. Team leaders and team members must understand
differences in non-verbal signals to know if their information is being received the same by every other
team member. This also includes looking for and listening for indirect messages.

CLARIFY
2-60. Team leaders and team members clarify communication within the team to ensure all team members
understand it. Spending a little extra time to verify understanding early on can save a lot of time and
frustration later. Some ways to clarify communication are to repeat information as necessary, request and
provide clarification when needed, and ensure statements are direct and unambiguous.

BE AN ACTIVE LISTENER
2-61. Effective team leaders are active listeners. Actively listening helps leaders detect problems early to
avoid misunderstandings. A way to do this is to ask questions that reflect active listening and understanding
of the speaker's perspective. The most important purpose of listening is to comprehend the speaker’s
thoughts and internalize them. Both listening and questioning help build direct communication, which
means using language that is clear and direct while maintaining a nonjudgmental stance. Active listening
summarizes or mirrors the meaning of what another person has said to ensure mutual understanding. It also
distinguishes between the words, tone of voice, and non-verbal cues.

ACKNOWLEDGE COMMUNICATION WITH FEEDBACK
2-62. Feedback confirms the receipt of the message being sent. It also confirms whether the receiver
understands the message or not. This includes both verbal and nonverbal responses to another person’s
message. Non-verbal feedback quickly lets the sender of a message know that the receiver is listening and is
either getting the message or not. This can be done with a simple nod of the head or a thumbs up. Verbal
feedback is another method. There are several types of verbal feedback techniques. Parroting is a feedback
communication technique in which the receiver repeats the message to the sender word for word. Parroting
can come across as condescending or patronizing, so team members must use it carefully. However,
parroting may be very helpful when speaking on the phone with someone who is giving detailed
information. Paraphrasing is another way of checking to make sure that the listener understood the other
person’s ideas, information, or suggestions. Paraphrasing illustrates two areas of communication—the
information or content and how the person feels about the information or content.

COMMUNICATE WITH STAKEHOLDERS
2-63. A critical aspect of a team’s effectiveness is the exchange that occurs between the team and those
who have specific interests in the team's mission. Teams must often convey their understanding of the
mission to stakeholders. A primary issue that makes conveying understanding to stakeholders challenging is
figuring out how to package the information in a way that is meaningful and has an impact. A related
challenge is getting to know the way stakeholders would prefer to receive and absorb information from the

2-10

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Formation Stage

team. Some will prefer a visual representation. Getting to know the stakeholders helps the team tailor its
communications.
2-64. An additional factor relevant to communicating with stakeholders is the team leader's involvement
with the team. Due to an enormous array of competing demands, the team leader may have very little
engagement in the day-to-day workings of the team. In these situations, teams need alternative strategies for
keeping the team leader apprised of the team’s work. Team leaders may use the techniques in paragraphs
2-65 through 2-69 to convey the teams’ understanding and insights to stakeholders.

Study the Team’s Stakeholders
2-65. Effectively conveying the understanding and recommendations the team has developed requires that
team members understand their stakeholders’ needs, styles, and preferences for consuming information.
Some teams are able to easily determine this based on regular interactions with key decision makers.
However, other teams may find it necessary to actively discern the needs and preferences of their
stakeholders.

Socialize Ideas with Stakeholders
2-66. Experienced teams provide interim updates to key stakeholders as their understanding and ideas
evolve—rather than waiting until they have completed their work. This provides an opportunity for the team
to expose stakeholders to their logic and get feedback to help the team members refine their thinking. These
updates might occur verbally or through written updates. The team members also seek out the team leader's
input at key decision points. The team needs to plan for when to seek guidance and how to best use limited
opportunities for interaction with the team leader.

Recognize that Simple does not Equal Simplistic
2-67. To communicate with stakeholders, it is best to simplify the language or visual representations and
avoid using complex terminology. Team members explain insights and recommendations using standard
organizational terms and language. The extent to which a team can simplify concepts using language the
organization is accustomed to using will increase the likelihood that it is understood.

Seek External Feedback
2-68. A way to seek feedback is to consider bringing in someone outside the team to give the team a check
on its final work. This person might be resident within the organization, or this person could be someone the
team members trust outside the immediate organization.

Build In Opportunities For Discussion and Exchange With Key Stakeholders
2-69. It is important to provide opportunities for the stakeholders to ask clarifying questions, elaborate on
ideas, and seek additional information on the team’s work. To ease the transfer of ideas and insights to those
who need to act on them, team leaders consider actively building in opportunities for this important
exchange and continual iteration of ideas to occur.

RAPIDLY FORMED TEAMS
2-70. A rapidly formed team is composed of two or more individuals who come together due to either
environmental demands or the need for people with specific expertise. For example, a team may be needed
to accomplish a specific goal, such as rescue someone who is wounded, or respond to the scene of a
vehicular accident. Other rapidly formed teams may come together to solve a specific problem, such as
brainstorming for mission analysis, or they may become an Army design planning team.
2-71. Rapidly formed teams must be ready to work very soon after forming, whether in just a few hours or
up to several weeks after they are created. They often face high stakes problems because they operate in
dynamic, temporally constrained situations. These dynamic situations are characterized by the need to make

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

2-11

Chapter 2

complex decisions quickly, evolving and ambiguous situations, information overload, strict time pressures,
adverse physical conditions, or severe consequences for error.
2-72. Teams developed rapidly may or may not be composed of team members that understand one another
and have performed together before. Either way, they must be ready to function as a cohesive whole in a
short period. To rapidly integrate individuals into a team, team leaders may—
 Use a personal histories exercise to introduce team members.
 Identify commonalities among team members.
 Share leadership responsibilities with team members to instill personal responsibility.
 Formulate operating guidelines to promote open discussion.
 Provide feedback on the team’s process and performance on a regular basis.
 Get team members invested in the task—link the task to their personal values and goals.
 Make sure all members are present for the first meeting.
2-73. These activities do not need to take long to conduct, but they are critical to performance. Spending
even just a few minutes getting team members familiar with one another’s experiences and getting them
invested in the purpose of the task can be critical for subsequent performance. If there is not much time
available, team leaders concentrate on identifying commonalities, getting team members invested, and
continuing to provide feedback on how the team is doing throughout the life of the team. To rapidly develop
a team, team leaders may—
 Define the goal.
 Work collaboratively.
 Recognize differences.
 Determine motivation.
 Clarify roles and responsibilities.
 Develop shared understanding.
 Develop team goals and expectations.

DEFINE THE GOAL
2-74. Team leaders define why team members need to operate effectively with one another to achieve a
shared goal. Team leaders explain what each individual brings to the team that can help accomplish the
mission. Team leaders value and acknowledge each group’s unique contributions. Team leaders identify and
highlight a shared identity that goes beyond these group differences. Team leaders emphasize to members
that subgroups hold different but equally important roles, and they stress how cooperative work allows them
to achieve shared goals.

WORK COLLABORATIVELY
2-75. Team leaders work collaboratively to determine the mechanics of how their groups will cooperate.
They facilitate a discussion with all involved parties to determine how they would like to function. Team
leaders may need to answer several questions to determine how to most effectively develop collaboration:
 What does the team leader need to do to establish trust?
 What is motivating to the group?
 How do team members define themselves as part of the group?
 How should decisions be made that affect the group?

RECOGNIZE DIFFERENCES
2-76. Team leaders appreciate the uniqueness of each subgroup and how their unique strengths benefit the
team. Although it may be tempting for team leaders to smooth over differences, it is better to recognize
them and figure out ways to reframe those differences as strengths that benefit the team. This approach
helps avoid the distinctiveness threat, which occurs when subgroups within a larger group feel that their

2-12

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Formation Stage

uniqueness is being threatened and react unfavorably (by identifying more with their subgroup identity than
with the overarching team identity).

DETERMINE MOTIVATION
2-77. Team leaders consider the factors that are motivating each group and determine what is important to
them. Team leaders discuss group motivators and develop an understanding of the group’s relationships.
This can help defuse conflict and get a better understanding of people’s perceptions and feelings about the
team and the situation.

CLARIFY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
2-78. Rapidly formed teams are usually comprised of diverse individuals who may not agree on or
understand the best way to achieve the team’s goal. Clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the team
members ensures that everyone has a common understanding of who does what on the team, how
responsibilities are shared, and what team members expect of one another. A brief exercise can help clarify
roles and responsibilities in swiftly forming teams and can help develop contingency plans that may be
needed in time-pressured situations. Team leaders ensure team members know when they should step up
and step back as leaders by clearly defining limits of authority. Team leaders also provide timely feedback
to team members because a team cannot improve if it does not know what is going wrong or right.

DEVELOP TEAM GOALS AND EXPECTATIONS
2-79. Rapidly formed teams are often under increased pressure to achieve an outcome by a specific time.
However, team members may have different views on how to achieve that outcome. There are some
techniques that will help team leaders to develop goals and expectations for the team. Team leaders
should—
 Focus the team on who is responsible, what needs to be accomplished, where it is occurring,
when it needs to be accomplished, and why the team is engaging in it.
 Encourage team members to share information with one another and not assume that information
is common knowledge.
 Focus on process, not just performance and discuss how things will be done, not just the end
goal.
 Clarify expectations about team coordination and communication.
 Present performance-oriented goals to the team with the right challenge as well as the appropriate
inspiration and opportunity.
 Tie team goals to the personal values and interests of team members to gain acceptance.
 Break goals down into manageable sub goals to manage complicated tasks.
 Make realistic goals that are attainable but challenging.
 Communicate about and collaboratively set goals in such a way as to equally influence new and
veteran team members.
 Get team members to provide input on what the goals should be and how to perform tasks.
 Determine if there are conflicting goals and have team members prioritize their criticality based
on the situation.
 Emphasize that everyone must contribute to reach the team goals and that no one will be
successful unless everyone collaborates.
 Discuss how team members can support each other to reach goals.
2-80. Team leaders link roles and responsibilities to goals to ensure clear steps towards reaching goals and
meeting expectations. Breaking down goals into manageable sub goals helps ensure team members are not
overwhelmed. Team leaders ensure everyone understands the situation and the problem the team is facing.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

2-13

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 3

Enrichment Stage
This chapter begins with a discussion of the importance of building commitment
during the enrichment stage of team building. It then describes shared competence,
confidence, and accountability and how they contribute to the effectiveness of teams.
The chapter then discusses techniques to motivate teams and team members, and the
chapter concludes with a discussion on developing cohesion to enhance the
performance of teams.
3-1. Enrichment is the process of enhancing teamwork, improving cohesion, and developing team norms.
All team members must be committed to working as a team and realize that others depend on them. It is
important to build commitment and keep the team motivated during the enrichment stage, as the team
continues to learn how to work together. During the enrichment stage, teams will usually build commitment
and develop shared competence and shared confidence, which will allow them to develop cohesion. A team
that has commitment creates clarity around direction and priorities, which aligns the entire team around
common objectives. Effective teams develop the ability to learn from mistakes and take advantage of
opportunities. They are able to move forward or change direction without hesitation.

BUILD COMMITMENT
3-2. Commitment is an individual's motivation and willingness to belong to the team and help achieve the
defined goals. Building commitment is a process involving everyone on the team. Soldiers and Department
of the Army Civilians foster an enduring commitment to the Army, its mission, its people, and the continued
practice of the fundamental aspects of the Army culture. Commitment to the purpose and values of an
organization provides a clear sense of direction.
3-3. Commitment relies on acceptance, the degree to which team members are committed to the team’s
vision and mission, and the degree to which they believe in what the team is trying to accomplish. Team
members who have acceptance take ownership of the team’s direction and put out the extra effort to ensure
the team’s success. Effective teams make clear and timely decisions and move forward with complete
acceptance from every member of the team. Paragraphs 3-4 through 3-8 describe supportive team-based
techniques and suggested actions for building and maintaining commitment. Teams can use these techniques
and modify them as required for each unique team organization and team missions.

Encourage Team Identification
3-4. Team leaders encourage a sense of self-identification by articulating the team vision and defining the
values that the team should have. This ensures that the team vision incorporates the skills of the whole team.
Articulating the mission will encourage team members to view the team and its goal positively, and then
they will define their own role within the team.

Reward Cooperation
3-5. Team leaders reward cooperation and acknowledge that teamwork is part of performance. Rewarding
cooperation will encourage team members to interact with each other to accomplish goals. This allows a
team to foster a sense of belonging.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

3-1

Chapter 3

Provide the Team with a Clear Vision
3-6. For team members to make a substantial commitment to success, they must feel that they are working
toward a joint outcome that is meaningful, and they are contributing to the success and support of the team
and its mission. Providing the team with a good visualization of the desired future for the team and the
team’s mission is an important technique for building commitment with the team members.
3-7. The important starting point is a clear vision and mission statements that team members have helped
create, are able to understand, use, and commit to achieving. Team members must also see the natural
linkage between the work they are performing and the long-term goals of their higher organization. The last
element is the creation of well-defined goals that are both challenging and support the overall mission of the
team.

Communicate Team Commitments
3-8. A lack of communication and communication breakdowns are normal and will happen from time to
time. However, most, if not all, communication problems are avoidable, if team leaders and team members
are aggressive about clearly communicating team commitments and information routinely.

Mitigate Challenges
3-9. A team that fails to develop commitment creates ambiguity among team members about its direction
and priorities. This type of team may watch as windows of opportunity close due to excessive analysis and
unnecessary delay. This often leads to a lack of confidence and a fear of failure, and it encourages
second-guessing among team members. A team can ensure commitment by taking specific steps to
maximize clarity and achieve acceptance. Paragraphs 3-17 through 3-20 describe a few simple but effective
tools and principles for mitigating challenges.
Cascading Messaging
3-10. At the end of a meeting, a team should review the key decisions made during the meeting and agree
on what to communicate about those decisions. Then the team leader ensures that these key decisions are
communicated to every member of the team.
Use Deadlines and Set Milestones
3-11. One of the best tools for ensuring commitment is to establish and meet deadlines. Team members
may have a lack of commitment to the team and the team mission, and they may show this by failing to
achieve the standard or by questioning the underlying reasons for an action or decision. These team
members often fail to contribute to the accomplishment of team goals. Teams can mitigate this by
establishing a suspense or deadline, or by setting milestones.
Worst-Case Scenario
3-12. A team that struggles with commitment can overcome this by developing contingency plans before
the mission. Discussing the worst-case scenario can help teams to understand the mission. When a team
fully understands its mission, it is easier for that team to commit to accomplishing it.
Reiterate Goals
3-13. Team leaders can also reiterate the team’s goals to team members. Often, team members lack
commitment because they have lost sight of the team's mission and goals. Therefore, it is important for the
team leader to explain why they should take pride in their work and cooperate to achieve goals. Finally,
team leaders can assign responsibility. On teams that lack commitment, individual team members should be
assigned more responsibility. Individuals will recognize the value of supporting and contributing to the team
when they know their duties contribute to that overall goal.

3-2

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Enrichment Stage

BUILD SHARED COMPETENCE
3-14. Competence is an Army professional’s demonstrated ability to perform duties successfully and to
accomplish the mission despite adversity, obstacles, and challenges. Shared competence means the team
collectively can perform its duties and accomplish the mission. Team members accept one another and their
leaders when they are satisfied with each other's knowledge of the job and ability to apply that knowledge.
Nothing deteriorates teamwork more quickly than the perception that team members do not know their jobs
and leaders do not know how to lead. The development of shared competence is important because team
members rely on each other for team expertise. The sum of the team’s skills is greater than the separate
parts.
3-15. Competency may be initially assumed, but it must be proven to increase trust and confidence.
Effective teams display competence by meeting or exceeding team goals and expectations. Shared
competence means that each member of the team has the competence to complete all the required tasks to
accomplish the mission. If there are tasks associated with mission accomplishment, each member of the
team is competent in the team tasks that are required to realize or accomplish the mission.

BUILD SHARED CONFIDENCE
3-16. Shared confidence is the product of shared trust from working as a team to execute a fully understood
and agreed upon vision with a competent team. Team leaders sometimes assume confidence among team
members with common backgrounds, values, and beliefs (such as among team members in the military).
However, in more complex environments with unified action partners, such an assumption of shared
confidence comes at the risk of degraded performance. A team may include members whose parent
organizations have historically shared little faith in one another, in which case personal interaction and
relationships between team members are critical to success.
3-17. It is the team leader's responsibility to build confidence in the team members' abilities. The team
leader establishes the conditions that foster taking initiative and encourage team development. Team
members and leaders develop mutual confidence by sharing difficult, challenging, and realistic training.
Mutual confidence multiplies combat power as it forms personnel into cohesive teams.
3-18. Being part of a team that performs well during challenging training instills confidence and pride.
Team members who lack pride in themselves and their performance cannot feel pride in their team or their
leaders. It is necessary for team leaders to show respect for each team member and encourage pride and
self-confidence in their team. Shared confidence grows once team members have developed shared trust and
are working together to accomplish an understood, agreed-upon vision or mission. Confident team members
are self-assured, comfortable taking prudent risks, creative when solving problems, share pride in their
accomplishments, and work together to continue to win.

MOTIVATE TEAM MEMBERS
3-19. Motivation supplies the will and initiative to do what is necessary to accomplish a mission.
Motivation comes from within, but others’ actions and words can affect it. There are two kids of motivation,
intrinsic and extrinsic.

Intrinsic Motivation
3-20. Intrinsic motivation refers to the drive within an individual that comes from personal interests. This
type of motivation resides within a person and does not come from external pressures. When a person finds
an activity satisfying, the activity itself is intrinsically motivating.

Extrinsic Motivation
3-21. Extrinsic motivation refers to the motivation that comes from external influences. Team leaders often
use extrinsic motivation to encourage behaviors that a team member would not develop from internal

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

3-3

Chapter 3

motivation. When a team member discovers that engaging in an activity will result in a reward or other
desired outcome, that team member can become extrinsically motivated.

Group Motivation
3-22. Group motivation refers to those team processes in which the team defines objectives, and then the
team becomes energized to achieve those objectives. The extent to which team members identify with the
team also contributes to the groups' motivation. Articulating a team's vision is fundamental to developing an
effective team. This vision is what motivates and directs a team to reach its goal. Loyalty, dedication, and
enthusiasm are important factors that contribute to the effectiveness of a team and the team's motivation.
Paragraphs 3-30 through 3-45 discuss techniques to motivate team members.

Account for Common Needs
3-23. Team members sometimes need help to meet their needs. Most people want to feel competent,
connected to others, and empowered in their ability to complete a task. One way to motivate team members
is to make their needs coincide with unit tasks and missions. People have a natural desire to work to satisfy
their own needs. When team leaders link these interests and needs with those of the group, they have a
powerful way to motivate. Some ways to accomplish this include—
 Involving them in establishing their performance goals.
 Emphasizing how well they have previously performed the task or similar work.
 Emphasizing group recognition, approval, and acceptance that will come from task performance.
 Allowing latitude to make choices, as the mission, situation, and individual’s abilities will permit.
 Giving positive performance feedback that focuses on the individual’s knowledge and skill.
 Emphasizing the benefits of an individual’s performance to the group.
 Emphasizing the value of the individual to the group and the group’s acceptance of a team
member.

Understand Individual Motivational Differences
3-24. Different things motivate different individuals. What motivates people differs from one person to the
next, whether it is a person’s values, self-interests, a cause, or another force. An example of internal
motivation is a fear or belief. An external motivation could be danger, the environment, or pressures from
other people. Understanding that certain motivational strategies may be more effective with some team
members than others is important.

Establish Goals
3-25. Goals help to focus attention and action. They increase the effort that is expended to master new
skills. Goals help provide motivation for the team members to persist, even in the face of failure, until the
goal is accomplished. Team leaders collaboratively establish goals that are challenging and specific. They
follow up with team members and provide feedback about their work toward meeting those goals. Team
leaders ensure that there are multiple feedback mechanisms in place.

Reward and Recognize Team Members
3-26. Team leaders who recognize individual and team accomplishments shape positive motivation and
actions for the future. Team leaders reward individual and team behavior that supports unit tasks and
missions. Recognition and feedback for team members is valuable in increasing motivation, and recognition
should be used when someone achieves a high performance standard. Rewarding an individual or team
behavior that supports the team is an effective method to motivate. A chance for a reward is a sound
motivator. Awards symbolize a proud achievement. However, team leaders only promise the rewards that
they can actually provide, and they follow through on promises of rewards. Team leaders ensure that team
members actually deserve and desire the rewards being offered.

3-4

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Enrichment Stage

Planning Events
3-27. Participating in the planning of future events can be a highly motivating experience. By contributing
ideas to a plan, team members then have a personal interest in seeing the plan succeed. Participating in
planning improves communication, which improves teamwork.

BUILD SHARED ACCOUNTABILITY
3-28. Accountability means accepting the responsibility for one's actions. This includes a person’s ability to
accept the consequences for the results of those actions. In order for a team to promote shared
accountability, team leaders should reinforce the team’s mission and vision. Team leaders hold team
members accountable by identifying problems that arise from a lack of teamwork. By noting these
problems, team members can work together to solve them.
3-29. One way that team leaders can foster shared accountability is to have the team members describe their
purpose and define the teams’ roles and responsibilities. A team leader should also ensure that each team
member understands what the standards are. Holding teams accountable for their combined results will only
work if the team members are able to influence each other's behavior. When teammates participate in the
shaping of the team’s vision, they are more likely to accept responsibility and accountability for the team’s
success.
3-30. When a team holds itself accountable, then the team members can handle the consequences of their
actions together. This means the whole team is accountable for each member’s performance. The team
connects real consequences to a team's actions. Team leaders should not shield their teams from the
consequences of what they fail to accomplish together.

Self-Correction
3-31. Effective teams learn through self-correction. Self-correction means the team leader and team
members identify, admit, and learn from individual and group mistakes and use this information to adjust
their course of action. On self-correcting teams, team members develop goals and tasks to help everyone
succeed and accomplish the mission. Additionally, on self-correcting teams, interpersonal conflict is
resolved between team members without escalating the conflict to the team leader or other team members.

Climate of Accountability
3-32. Creating a climate of accountability means developing a climate in which people can speak openly
and admit to mistakes without fear. The biggest fear people have about accountability is that they will be
punished for their actions. In successful teams, team members view mistakes as learning opportunities.
Creating a climate of accountability for mistakes allows team leaders to foster a learning organization. All
team members should be able to admit to mistakes and accept the consequences for them. When mistakes
occur, teams should focus on how to correct problems and how to prevent them from happening again.

DEVELOP COHESION
3-33. Cohesion is the bond of relationships and motivational factors that help a team work together. A
cohesive team puts aside interfering differences and chooses to work together. Every new mission gives the
team leader a chance to strengthen internal bonds and challenge the team to reach new levels of
performance, accomplishment, and confidence. A team’s positive attitude about its capabilities elevates
motivation and the team’s desire to meet new challenges.
3-34. Teams develop cohesion through three elements: bonding, commitment, and resolve. Bonding is the
development of strong interpersonal relationships among team members and their leaders. Bonding results
from shared experiences through which interpersonal relationships are developed. The collective levels of
mutual respect, trust, and confidence that develop between units is a form of bonding. Commitment is
dedication to the team and what it represents and to the values and goals of the Army. All team members
must be committed to working as members of the team and realize that others depend on them. Resolve is

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

3-5

Chapter 3

the shared determination and motivation of teammates to work interdependently to accomplish the mission
and to sustain this capability over a long period.

Improve the Level of Cohesion
3-35. There are seven areas where team leaders can improve the level of cohesion within a team:
 Leadership.
 Group characteristics.
 Individuals on the team.
 Team socialization.
 Team and individual goals and objectives.
 Team activities.
 Team identification and history.
Leadership
3-36. The most critical factor in developing team cohesion is leadership. Cohesion cannot be created from
the top down. It is developed within a team and involves all members of that team. Leaders create the
climate for cohesive growth. Leaders who encourage and provide opportunities to develop a sense of
ownership in the mission develop teams that are more cohesive. Team leaders must ensure that all team
members are treated with respect and communicate standards and expectations clearly.
Group Characteristics
3-37. Groups identify with customs, traditions, and values. Cohesive teams form groups along
organizational lines. Team leaders ensure their team has sufficient members to accomplish its missions.
Group characteristics help teams build group and team pride. Cohesive teams recognize that group
membership satisfies member needs and will create the conditions that require group interaction. Team
leaders should recognize and reinforce groups that have a positive influence on the team.
Individuals on the Team
3-38. A team leader’s attention must be directed on the development of each team member. The team
leader must know and respond to the personal interests and needs of the team. The individuals in a team
affect the cohesion of that team. When each member of a team becomes a valuable, contributing member,
team cohesion is enhanced. Team leaders make the effort to know each team member and ensure team
members perform all tasks to standard. Team leaders should also encourage and recognize individual
initiative.
Team Socialization
3-39. An individual becomes a team member through a socialization process. Socialization is the process
by which a new team member acquires the skills, knowledge, and attitudes unique to a team and is accepted
by that team. The stages of team development outline this process. The team leader must recognize that
informal groups within a team establish socialization processes as well. The goal of socialization is
commitment to the team and the internalization of the team’s mission. Team socialization is an important
component of team development and cohesion. Cohesive teams reinforce actions and attitudes that support
the professional Army ethic, and they set and maintain high standards.
Team and Individual Goals and Objectives
3-40. One of the most important factors of team cohesion is the integration of team and individual goals.
When team members work together to accomplish goals, they develop the belief that they can accomplish
almost anything. One way to develop this belief is to establish clear and achievable, yet challenging, goals.
Team leaders should involve team members in the goal and objective setting process and relate individual
goals to team goals. Additionally, team leaders should ensure that team goals support the team’s mission.

3-6

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Enrichment Stage

Team Activities
3-41. Team leaders should conduct team activities that are interesting and include all team members.
Possible activities include everything from field training exercises and crew qualification tests to
organization days and social events. Team leaders plan these activities with cohesion in mind. Some ways
that team leaders can build cohesion through team activities are to train as a team and make training
challenging and realistic. When appropriate, the team leader may also involve family members.
Team Identification and History
3-42. A cohesive team draws some of its strength from the achievements and experiences of those who
have previously served. A cohesive team will include unit history in the orientation program and use mottos
or sayings correctly and with pride.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

3-7

This page intentionally left blank.

Chapter 4

Sustainment Stage
This chapter begins with a discussion on adapting a team to change. It then describes
how teams manage conflict. The chapter concludes with a discussion of building
resilient teams.
4-1. During the sustainment stage, teams develop a sense of pride and ownership in the team and its goals.
However, teams often have difficulties during the sustainment stage. Effective team leaders watch for signs
of complacency and intervene when it occurs by reinforcing good interaction practices and maintaining
team standards. Changes for which the team is not prepared can be another challenge for the team leader.
Shared experiences and regular training help teams address unexpected changes in situations. Empowering
the team to improve coordination can strengthen its ability to handle change.

ADAPT TO CHANGE
4-2. Team leaders recognize that what works for them when leading a team in one organizational context
may not be the best fit for the team within the current organization. Team leaders elicit the team members’
views about what will (or will not) be accepted within the current organizational climate. Team leaders
work with team members to adapt their leadership style, the team’s approach, and the work process
accordingly.
4-3. As teams adapt to change, they must continually reassess their goals and priorities. As missions
change, team leaders must ensure the goals and priorities of the team are in line with the mission. If several
things need to be accomplished at the same time, team leaders should set priorities and allocate time to
complete each task. Team leaders inform their team of changes, explain to their team why the mission has
changed, how they will work to accomplish the new mission, and the standards expected of them. Cohesive
teams adjust quickly when they understand the goal.
4-4. Effective teams handle change. As team leaders respond to situations that threaten sustained
teamwork and cohesion, they must realize that team growth and stability are often uneven. A team may
reach a peak, seem to slump, and then build to a new level of performance. This may occur when new
members are added to the team. Successful leaders guide the team to peak performance with it faces critical
tasks or combat actions. The effectiveness of the team changes when team members change. The
efficiencies teams establish as members working together must be reestablished when new members join the
team. This also applies when team members leave with no replacement. Some techniques that can help
adapt to changes in the team are listed in table 4-1 on page 4-2.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

4-1

Chapter 4

Table 4-1. Techniques for adapting to team changes
New Team Member Techniques

Identify, contact, and integrate new team members as early as possible.
Acquire rapid access to e-mail and operating sites.
Introduce the new team member to the team.
Determine what areas the new member will lead.
Introduce the new team member to team processes.
Implement a standard training plan.
Explain how key decisions are made.
Loss of a Team Member Techniques

Identify a backup for everyone and cross-train on responsibilities.
Conduct focused exit interviews.
Capture knowledge, including file transfers and continuity books.
Obtain new contact information.
Recognize the outgoing team member and formally say goodbye.
Mission Change Techniques

Update vision and purpose.
Identify new competencies required.
Reform the team (as needed).
Identify processes from previous missions that will remain relevant or become outdated.
Rebuild trust and confidence.
Introducing New Technology to the Team Techniques

Identify experienced users. If there are any, they take the lead until the team is proficient.
Formulate a training and implementation plan.
Identify the impact on mission and capabilities.

MANAGE CONFLICT
4-5. Conflict is the tension between individuals or groups because of real or perceived differences. It is
built on an individual’s or group’s perception of a problem, whether that be a perceived difference in views
or ideas, interpersonal incompatibilities, or one individual or group interfering with another group’s goals or
interests. Sometimes conflict is necessary to bring about a change or resolve a problem. In this way, conflict
can be positive and constructive, but only when it is managed properly. To manage conflict, a team leader
must address the other side’s perception of the issue, which may be completely different from that team
leader’s perception. There are different ways to manage conflict. The approach used will depend on the
time available, the degree and impact of the conflict, and the underlying goal.

APPROACH TO CONFLICT RESOLUTION
4-6. When conflicts occur, team leaders acknowledge the problem and determine the best way to resolve
it. The team leader should gain understanding of the situation from both sides in order to remain unbiased.
The conflict resolution process should stay focused on the issue and ways to resolve it. The most desired
method for resolving conflict is by collaboration. This method allows both sides of the conflict to contribute
to solving the problem. Once the team leader identifies the source of conflict, both sides must show an
interest in working together to solve the problem. After they have developed ideas together on how to come
to a resolution, the team leader helps them to choose a solution.

4-2

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Sustainment Stage

4-7. Another approach to conflict resolution is consensus building, a form of negotiation in which
everyone agrees to the solution. While the idea of a unanimous decision may seem unlikely, building
consensus within a team helps set the conditions for a collective decision to solving a problem.

TYPES OF CONFLICTS
4-8. There are generally two types of conflicts found in teams: task conflicts and personal conflicts. Task
conflicts refer to disagreements about work. Task conflicts can be beneficial to team performance, while
personal conflicts are usually harmful. Team leaders cannot ignore personal conflicts. If the team does not
confront the problem, the team will develop a negative climate. When personal conflicts occur, teams must
communicate with each other to resolve the problem. Using conflict positively and constructively can help
build a strong foundation of trust and respect among team members.
4-9. At some point, most teams will encounter team conflicts. Accordingly, it is helpful to spend some
time during team development to establish team ground rules for working through difficult team issues.
Some of the useful guidelines to use when developing team ground rules for managing conflict are included
in paragraphs 4-10 through 4-15.

Avoid Personal Attacks
4-10. The minimal requirement is that when expressing concerns, team members avoid getting personal.
Getting personal for a work-related issue accomplishes nothing and only deepens a conflict. Team members
stick to the facts about how a team member’s behavior or work performance is affecting the team or others
on the team.

Prevent Heated Outbursts
4-11. In teams, angry outbursts among team members drive conflict underground where it does not get
resolved, and it puts other team members on the defensive. Team leaders direct team members that if they
feel they are starting to lose control of their emotions, they should stop and remove themselves from the
team and the discussion for several minutes. Heated outbursts hurt relationships, trust, and collaboration.

Approach Other Team Members Directly
4-12. Team members should agree that if they have issues with another team member, they will approach
that member directly to discuss those issues, rather than discussing it with other team members behind the
back of that individual. It also means that when they are about to discuss difficult issues that might cause
anger or defensiveness from the other team member, they will conduct a face-to-face meeting with that team
member whenever possible. The next best solution is to engage the member over the phone. Teams who are
geographically separated may be forced to use e-mail, but e-mail use should be limited. Team members
should only use e-mail to approach team members with issues if there is no other means of communication.

Never Assume Hostile Intent
4-13. Team conflicts are most often caused by such factors as communication breakdowns, unclear team
roles, and conflicting agendas, not by a desire to do harm to other team members or the team. If a team
member does not understand the reasons for another team member’s behavior, the team leader should ask
them about it and reevaluate the team leader’s assumptions. After the team has agreed to the team’s ground
rules, it is useful to periodically set aside time during team meetings or work group sessions to discuss
whether the team members feel that all team members are adhering to those ground rules or not. Team
leaders should take action if some team members are not adhering to the ground rules. Team leaders work
to get the team member’s focus back on the mission.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

4-3

Chapter 4

Act to Control Conflict
4-14. Team leaders contain conflicts when they arise. Conflicts can quickly spread beyond control if no
action is taken or action is delayed. Team leaders remind team members about guidelines for managing
conflicts. When a team leader observes a conflict between team members, that team leader should meet with
them individually and then perform a brief check-in later to determine if they are addressing the issue. Team
leaders ensure that team members take responsibility for the situation, and they inform the team leader after
they have resolution.
4-15. Team leaders do not let team members argue in a team meeting or a public forum because their
conduct can have a negative impact on the team. Team leaders guide them to find a resolution, and, if
needed, they work through a neutral party to do so. Team leaders caution team members and do not allow
them to send inflammatory e-mails to one another. This is unprofessional and it does not resolve a conflict.
Team leaders do not let team members pull other team members or individuals outside the team into their
conflict. Team leaders give team members the freedom to resolve their disagreements, but they do not allow
disagreements to affect the team or other team members. Team leaders discuss the conflict and behavior
with the team members involved before it permanently damages the team.

AVOIDING CONFLICT
4-16. Teams can engage in constructive conflict and know that the purpose is to construct the best solution
in the shortest time. When team members avoid conflict and do not discuss their opinions, poor decisions
are the result. The desire to avoid a fight may prevent situations in which productive conflict would be
useful. A team can develop the ability and willingness to engage in healthy conflict.
4-17. The important point is to understand that many teams have a tendency to avoid conflict, even though
it can be productive. One way for a team to make conflict easy to handle is to appoint a team member who
can identify disagreements and bring them out in the open. This team member will also need to recognize
that the people engaged in conflict are becoming uncomfortable and stop to remind them that conflict is
sometimes necessary.

TEAMS THAT FAIL TO MEET THE STANDARD
4-18. Team leaders need to recognize when a team is not meeting the standard and identify the source of
the problem. In some cases, there are team members who will not work together regardless of the
circumstances. In other cases, the team leader needs to plan additional training. A lack of planning often
leads to a team not meeting the standard as well. The team leader must figure out what the problem is and
respond appropriately to bring the team up to standard. (See FM 6-22 for more information.)

SUSTAIN RESILIENT TEAMS
4-19. To have resilience, team members have to be able to build and sustain positive relationships. Team
members need strong bonds with people who allow them to be themselves and help them to become
stronger people. Social resilience is not just about being the strongest fighting force. It also includes having
a team in which members can have fun with each other and confide in each other. During stressful times,
teams find out whom they can count on. Experiences in combat can test relationships. When experiences are
good, they can contribute in a powerful way to helping to become more socially resilient. They can help to
recover quickly from traumatic events and overcome difficult obstacles that stand in the way.
4-20. Social resilience is the capability to foster, engage in, and sustain positive social relationships as well
as to endure and recover from stressors and social isolation. Building social resilience within a team means
working together to be a cohesive unit. In a cohesive unit, every team member—
 Trusts each other to put the interests of the unit ahead of their own.
 Values, appreciates, and cares for each other.
 Takes advantage of each team member’s diverse skills and experiences.
 Looks out for each other.

4-4

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Sustainment Stage







Shows a genuine interest in each other.
Puts themselves at risk for each other.
Works and communicates well with each other.
Puts the interests of the unit ahead of their own.
Takes advantage of their differences to work more effectively.

4-21. The resilience of the unit can be beneficial to the team climate. Even during the most painful
experiences, by continuing to connect with other team members and sharing thoughts and feelings, bonds
become stronger, and team members are able to bounce back much more quickly from painful or traumatic
events.

STRATEGIES THAT BUILD A TEAM’S SOCIAL RESILIENCE
4-22. Essential to team resilience is fostering, engaging in, and sustaining positive social relationships with
people who understand, appreciate, and care for team members. By building such connections with others,
team members are able bounce back from the difficult challenges that are thrown their way. Being able to
develop these relationships requires—
 Responsive listening.
 A willingness to share personal details with others.
 An ability to sense other people’s emotions and reach out to them in a positive way.

Responsive Listening
4-23. Responsive listening is a way to build team resilience. Responsive listeners encourage people to share
stories and help them make sense of events. Team members should remain responsive throughout a
conversation. As team members speak, a smile, a laugh, or a show of sympathy can be appropriate. When
speaking, team leaders address team members by their names and speak in terms of “we” to include the
other team members.

Willingness to Share Personal Details to Others
4-24. Team members should have a willingness to share personal information. Sharing information is a
common and powerful way to form and cement friendships.

Sense Other People’s Emotions
4-25. Paying attention to other people’s emotions benefits the team’s resilience. Team members should pay
full attention to what another person is saying and show genuine interest. Team members can also express
themselves in a way that shows warmth, caring, and acceptance, and not judge, interpret, or criticize. When
it comes to connecting with others, it does not take words to recognize when someone is feeling a moment
of joy or peace, or is angry or sad. Team leaders should consider how bonded the team could be if every
member was able to assess the emotional status of others and reached out to those who seem frightened,
anxious, lonely, or disconnected. People are complex, and they often feel a mixture of emotions at one time.
Most people have the capability to step into the shoes of others and to reflect on what they are thinking and
feeling.
4-26. The power of unity and teamwork can make a difference in how to manage adversity, or better yet, in
how to overcome it. Without each of their unique and diverse skill sets at work, teams are less effective and
may be unprepared to adapt to the unexpected. Team members rely on each other to work as a unified team
to accomplish the mission, even when the unexpected happens.
4-27. Building social resilience is something every team member must do regardless of position, rank, or
experience level. Social resilience is the capability to foster, engage in, and sustain positive social
relationships and to endure and recover from stressors and social isolation. Social resilience is an invisible
and powerful force that holds people together and gives them purpose. Part of what makes a group socially
resilient is that its members do what it takes to make the group better, and they put the needs of the group

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

4-5

Chapter 4

ahead of their own. Team members with social resilience act in ways that live up to the group’s core values
at all times and have a strong connection with other members in the group. The cohesiveness and social
resilience of the group matters when it comes to overcoming adversity or any unforeseen challenge.

TEAM DIVERSITY
4-28. Diversity is the things that make people different and unique, including differences in roles, ethnicity,
gender, physical size, and ability. A team that is bonded in its efforts and diverse in its approaches will be
more resilient and effective in responding to any unexpected or adverse situations. Differences can make
teams more adaptable, and help build more cohesion, trust, mutual respect, and effectiveness within the
team. Each team member has a unique skill and role that enhances the team’s effectiveness. Unfortunately,
there are natural impulses that compete with desire to work together as a diverse team. Two natural
tendencies that prevent teams from capitalizing on diversity are the desire to bond with people who are most
like them and a desire to seek agreement.
4-29. People naturally segregate. People want to spend time with other people who look and act like them
and share common interests and opinions. This is human nature. People often form close bonds with similar
people and see those who are different as outsiders. Without intention, people naturally segregate
themselves into similar and non-diverse groups.
4-30. People naturally seek agreement. In addition to allowing differences to divide a group, even the most
diverse groups tend to seek and reward agreement. Within the most cohesive of groups, there is the habit of
agreeing with each another rather than using differences to point out problems or present new ideas. It is
easier to talk with people who agree because it is effortless, but that makes for a weaker and less resilient
team. It is more valuable to be right than to be comfortable.
4-31. Diversity means relying on diverse capacities to help solve problems. Therefore, it is also important
to develop a unified team that values and appreciates disagreements and embraces new approaches or
alternate perspectives. This does not include disagreement for disagreement’s sake, but the desire and
ability to listen to and synthesize diverse ideas for the good of the whole.
4-32. Teams must learn to balance natural impulses. Differences make a team stronger and more adaptable
in the face of new challenges. However, the natural impulses of seeking similarity and agreement often
compete with the desire to take advantage of these differences. Team members have to know how to use
diversity to their advantage. That means taking the time to bond and develop team chemistry both on and
off duty. It means getting to know how to use every team member’s skills and experiences to become a
more resilient, unified, and adaptable team.

4-6

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Appendix A

Team Assessments
This appendix begins with a discussion of assessing team effectiveness. It then
discusses individual, team leader, and peer assessments. It concludes with a
description of some additional assessment tools that teams can use.
A-1. An integral part of ensuring the success of teams in complex environments is assessing performance.
Specifically, assessment is a critical component of determining readiness and providing feedback after
training. The objective is to provide techniques team leaders and team members can use in their efforts to
assess their individual, leader, peer, and team performance.
A-2. Team leaders and team members must be able to assess how their team performs. After assessing
performance, teams are able to make improvements in weak areas while sustaining strong areas of their
performance. The result is a cohesive team with the ability to improve and sustain exceptional performance.

TEAM MEMBER INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENTS
A-3. Assessing team members can be a challenging task for most team leaders, since learning about others
takes time and purposeful effort. Other demands often seem to leave little time to perform assessments. To
combat this, team leaders can use a combination of methods to assess their teams, including interviewing,
observing team members, and talking with others about team members.

INTERVIEW TEAM MEMBERS
A-4. Talking one-on-one with team members about their skills and interests is a good strategy for assessing
capability and commitment. When talking with team members, the team leader can ask open-ended
questions. If done well, this type of questioning can help verify understanding as well as encourage
discussion and explanation from team members.

OBSERVE TEAM MEMBERS
A-5. Another way to assess capabilities and commitment of team members is to observe them at work.
Team leaders should observe team members performing their tasks and evaluate their attitudes and
competence while they conduct operations.

TALK WITH OTHERS WHO KNOW THE TEAM MEMBERS
A-6. Another method of assessment is to ask other people about their experiences working with particular
team members. Other people with whom they have worked can speak about their strengths and weaknesses
and help assess their capabilities. To get an accurate assessment of team members, team leaders can talk to
previous supervisors, peers, and subordinates. When talking to others, team leaders remember that people
have their own personal biases, and that these biases may color their opinions of team members.

TEAM LEADER INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT
A-7. Team leaders should conduct individual self-assessments periodically to determine their
effectiveness. This type of leader assessment encourages development and helps leaders learn if their
behavior communicates support for leader development. There are many actions that set the example for a
cohesive team that encourages development. Some of these actions include—

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

A-1

Appendix A










Developing self and engaging in learning.
Reinforcing guidance given to others through own actions.
Not expecting others to do what the leader would not do.
Improving abilities to interact interpersonally.
Serving as a mentor to others outside the chain of command.
Acting positive, expressing encouragement, and being realistically optimistic.
Communicating an expectation of continuous learning.
Engaging leaders in critical thinking and challenging them to shift perspective.

A-8. If team leaders determine that they are not demonstrating these behaviors, they must take actions to
correct themselves. Team leaders can ask peers and subordinates to assist with this assessment and watch
for these behaviors. Some additional behaviors that team leaders should assess include—
 Taking time to get to know and understand subordinates.
 Inspiring people to do their best.
 Assessing strengths and developmental needs of subordinates.
 Taking leaders aside and discussing lessons learned and feedback.
 Reviewing job performance with subordinates to assist in their growth.
 Making task and assignment decisions based in part on developmental needs.
 Encouraging subordinates to engage in self-study and training opportunities.
 Fostering teamwork, cohesion, cooperation, and loyalty.

ASSESSING EXTERNAL TEAMS
A-9. Team leaders should assess the effectiveness of both internal and external teams. Team effectiveness
depends on three criteria:
 Producing a team outcome acceptable to whomever the team is serving (gets results).
 Growing team capability (which improves the capability of the organization).
 Having meaningful group experiences (which results in improved confidence).
A-10. Team leaders should consider ways to measure internal and external teams. Effectiveness can be
measured by the—
 Amount of shared situational understanding.
 Amount of shared purpose and vision about the mission (an ability to see an end‐state).
 Amount of shared trust between team members.
 Amount of perceived competence of other team members.
 Amount of confidence each member has in the team’s ability to accomplish the mission.
 Amount of latitude given by leaders to accomplish the mission.
 Level of expertise available or accessible to the team.
 Ability to use social networks and including others who support the team.
 Time it takes to accomplish a mission or task.
 Quality of work the team produces (exceeding established standards).
 Contribution of knowledge and expertise shared by the team.
A-11. An assessment methodology is a way of thinking, understanding, and acting. It is used during the
normal course of operations in the context of the situation at hand.
A-12. An assessment approach will enable teams to observe, listen, stimulate, and support those who will
themselves create shared actionable understanding from the bottom up, drawing on their practices and
expectations. Assessment approaches also help a team frame and develop the knowledge, skills, and
attitudes required to support the high priority issues facing external teams.

A-2

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Team Assessments

ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT TOOLS AND TECHNIQUES
A-13. The team, individual team member, and team leader assessments offered and described in paragraphs
A-4 through A-12 are designed to provide actionable feedback for the three key elements (team, individual,
and leader) contributing to a team’s performance. These assessments are only techniques to assessing team
performance, and they can be modified to assess any team and its performance.
A-14. The Army uses a number of other tools and techniques periodically and sometimes continuously for
assessing individuals, leaders, teams, training events, missions, and operations. These tools include—
 Individual performance counseling.
 Evaluations.
 360 multi-source assessment and feedback.
 After action reviews.
A-15. Individual performance counseling, evaluations, and 360 multi-source assessment and feedback are
effective tools for assessing and evaluating individual team members and the team leader’s performance on
an individual basis and as a member of a team. They are not good tools for trying to assess the overall
performance of a team. However, the after action review is a great technique for assessing the performance
of a team. It can capture the overall performance, and it can be used to break the team’s work into stages or
phases. Assessing stages and phases separately provides an in-depth analysis of the team’s performance
when completing task steps.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

A-3

This page intentionally left blank.

Appendix B

External Teams
This appendix provides some techniques to help build effective external teams.
B-1. External teams are teams whose members are from different organizations, cultures, agencies, or
backgrounds and who bring specific knowledge, skills, and attitudes to the team. Most leaders are not able
to choose their team members. They must be prepared to build and develop their teams with the assigned
members, from both within their organizations and with unified action partners.

FORMING EXTERNAL TEAMS
B-2. When forming an external team, team leaders perform activities to develop an initial shared
understanding of the team’s mission and purpose, an understanding of the skill sets team members bring to
the team, and an understanding of the efforts required to develop shared skill sets. In this stage, team leaders
clarify and build consensus regarding the team’s purpose, understand the impact of various boundaries
crossed by team members, and build situational understanding of the environment. There are several
techniques to help build and strengthen the cohesiveness and effectiveness of external teams. When forming
external teams, team leaders should—
 Establish contact with team members immediately.
 Meet individually with team members to assess their strengths and weaknesses.
 Develop the team by introducing confidence-building tasks.
 Socialize frequently while still allowing for time alone.
 Maintain an adaptable stance in the face of changing conditions.
 Set the conditions for the team’s success.
 Consider input and recommendations before making decisions.
These techniques are only examples and can be adapted or modified as required.

ESTABLISH A POSITIVE CLIMATE
B-3. Establishing a positive climate is important in external teams with joint, interagency, and
multinational partners. Sometimes teams are comprised of members from many backgrounds, organizations,
cultures, and agencies. Each team member brings unique skills, biases, and agendas to a team. This can
result in members not having much in common. Through the team building process, team members identify
where differences exist and come to a common understanding, which contributes to an open and positive
climate in which the team’s work is constructive.

BUILD A TEAM IDENTITY AND VISION
B-4. External teams create and choose a team motto, symbol, or logo that identifies the team. Team
members then use this motto, symbol, or logo consistently in team communications and documents. A team
symbol or logo that represents the team’s goal or mission and its purpose, and one that is displayed on the
team’s documents, is also helpful for building rapport and support among team members.

CREATE SHARED VISION
B-5. By creating a shared vision, team members identify where differences exist, and then they can come
to a common understanding. To develop shared vision, external teams need to focus on gaining clear
understanding of the mission or task at hand. The common vision may be the most important component of

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

B-1

Appendix B

team building because it defines where the team is going and what it will look like when it gets there. The
leader’s ability to clearly communicate the common vision and align the team with that vision is essential.
Optimally, team members should be involved in creating the common vision. If they help create the vision,
they will in take greater ownership of that vision.
B-6. Teams with a shared vision have better coordination and less conflict than the teams without it.
Members of such teams are capable of predicting one another’s behaviors and acting quickly in the face of
changing circumstances. Leaders of teams with shared visions are confident in giving their members more
responsibility, which, in turn, increases the team’s ability to adapt.

BUILDING TRUST IN EXTERNAL TEAMS
B-7. The expectation that a person has a high level of integrity and is highly dependable fosters trust.
Team members are willing to put themselves at risk because of their confidence that the other team member
will do what they expect. When teams from different organizations collaborate, team members typically
have different backgrounds and experiences, and they have little experience or exposure to one another.
Members of these teams must quickly work together as one team. In this situation, it can be a challenge to
avoid making assumptions or establishing false expectations.
B-8. Team members sometimes initially develop trust by superficial factors such as rank or position, which
can lead to assumptions about a team member’s prior experiences and qualifications. These assumptions
incorrectly influence trust because they may not be accurate. However, direct experience with one another
over time allows team members to develop more informed, deeper levels of trust.

SOCIAL NETWORKING
B-9. Creating a team social networking system is another important step to building a team identity. Social
networking is as important as professional networking. Social networking gives team members an
opportunity to know and understand the ideas and perspectives of other team members. Social networking
systems also allow team members a way to communicate work through informal channels where team
members are more open and frank about issues and recommendations. Another technique to building a team
identity is to use every opportunity for communication and interaction. For example, team leaders should
periodically call, e-mail, or text team members to check in with them regarding their issues, concerns, or
potential problems.

CLARIFY EXPECTATIONS OF TEAM MEMBERS’ OWN ORGANIZATIONS
B-10. External teams whose members report to different units, organizations, agencies, or unified action
partners face a unique set of challenges. These teams place more responsibility on team members to
self-manage their activities, so it is important to get the full support of all team members’ parent
organizations. If full support is not gained from team members’ supervisors, it can create a conflict
regarding competing time constraints and commitments. A shared understanding between team leaders and
supervisors from the parent organizations on exchanging information, communicating, and any changes in
time requirements or responsibilities reduces conflict between organizations. Before launching into the
team’s tasks and mission, team members must understand how they will report to their parent organization.

TEAM MEMBER ACCOUNTABILITY
B-11. Team members must maintain accountability for their work and contributions to accomplishing the
mission. This includes the team members’ participation in meetings, working groups, or tasks. One method
for establishing accountability to identify those tasks, assignments, or milestones that are the most
challenging and will require the most attention. Once teams identify those tasks, they should ensure that
each team member knows what they are accountable for and what tasks have the highest priority.

B-2

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

External Teams

ENRICHING TEAMS
B-12. In the enriching stage, a team accomplishes missions. Throughout this stage, a team learns to improve
teamwork and improve on characteristics of effective teams. This also includes improving teamwork and
increasing commitment to the team.

TEAMWORK
B-13. Successful teamwork requires cooperation that is built through trust and confidence. A highly
effective team is based on team members having trust and confidence in each other. Successful teamwork
requires delegation of authority commensurate with responsibility. This is a necessary part of building and
maintaining the trust, based on competence, which characterizes a successful team. Delegation unleashes
the best efforts and greatest initiative from all members of military teams.

USE TECHNOLOGY TO ENHANCE COMMUNICATION
B-14. Teams have many different tools available to increase their ability to communicate, collaborate, and
share information. One tool is to develop a group e-mail list for the team. Another tool is to create a shared
calendar in which all team members have the ability to stay current with the work schedule. However,
having too many different tools can sometimes challenge teams. Some team members will rely on e-mail as
their only method of communication, when face to face communication is much more effective.

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
B-15. Information management tools are used to enhance team communication and collaboration across
time and distance. Information management tools allow teams to share files, communicate, and organize and
store information in a meaningful way. Teams should discuss the types and uses of information management
tools as teams form and progress.

KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT
B-16. Knowledge management is the process of enabling knowledge flow to enhance shared understanding,
learning, and decisionmaking (ADRP 6-0). Knowledge management includes the tools, techniques,
processes, and strategies to help create, capture, find, organize, analyze, share, and maintain organizational
knowledge and expertise. The goal of knowledge management is to make information easier to find, which
can make teams more productive and effective. It requires a balance of people, processes, technologies, and
structures, and it also requires a supporting climate of collaboration.
B-17. Knowledge flow refers to the way information and knowledge move through the organization.
Knowledge flows among people, among people and machines, and from machine to machine. Knowledge
management principles combined with information management tools allow the team to collaborate, learn,
transfer, and apply knowledge in more meaningful and efficient ways.

DISCUSS OPERATING AGREEMENTS AND TECHNOLOGY
B-18. To be effective, a team needs to commit to shared ways of working and interacting. This is
particularly important for teams that lack the familiarity of daily face‐to‐face contact and for those coming
from diverse organizations and cultures. By agreeing to certain common behaviors, teams can codify a set
of operating principles that address many areas where such teams can go astray. Because an external team
usually exists across boundaries of organization, function, level, or culture, there may not be traditional
rules and regulations that apply to every situation. Team members should discuss their communication
preferences. For example, some prefer e-mail, while others prefer text messages, and some regard the phone
as their most desired method of communication. This discussion is also an opportunity to consider any
cultural sensitivity that might arise. Some of these agreements should include the types of collaboration
tools, the work process, team behaviors, and team expectations. Team leaders work to avoid
misunderstandings when there are no established communication norms.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

B-3

Appendix B

SUSTAINING EXTERNAL TEAMS
B-19. Sustaining external teams requires leadership, flexibility, hard work, and total commitment. One
particular challenge when developing and sustaining external teams is that these teams usually cross over
organizational lines. Even though team members share a common collective task, the members may not
share reporting structures. Unity of effort is expected in the context of multiple chains of command. Coming
from different organizations (sometimes even different countries), team members generally use different
terminology, take different approaches to work, and sometimes have different values. Additionally, team
members have their own sets of short-range goals. Achieving these goals should contribute to the overall
effectiveness of the team, but this occurs only if there is shared situational understanding and integrated use
of scarce team resources among team members.

UNDERSTANDING CULTURAL DIFFERENCES
B-20. One method to sustain an external team begins by addressing cultural or organizational obstacles.
This approach broadens the circle of the team and emphasizes building relationships and finding expertise.
It is an adaptive way of teaching team members how to observe, think, and act in complex situations.
Cultural differences in teams can create substantial obstacles to effective teamwork. By addressing
obstacles early when developing a team, team leaders have the ability to mitigate obstacles and establish a
positive strategy for bringing the team together. This means knowing clearly what culture means, how
cultures vary, and how culture affects behavior.
B-21. An effective team needs to pay attention to cues in the cross-cultural situations. Team members
should develop effective social skills and become competent across a wide range of situations. Team
members should be able to choose the appropriate behaviors for different intercultural situations. Cultural
training helps teams become culturally aware and develop behavioral skills through experience.

B-4

ATP 6-22.6

30 October 2015

Glossary
The glossary lists acronyms and terms with Army or joint definitions. The proponent
publication for terms is listed in parentheses after the definition.

SECTION I – ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADP
ADRP

Army doctrine publication
Army doctrine reference publication

ATP

Army techniques publication

DA

Deaprtment of the Army

FM

field manual

JP

joint publication

U.S.

United States

SECTION II – TERMS
Army team building
A continuous process of enabling a group of people to reach their goals and improve their effectiveness
through leadership and various exercises, activities and techniques. (FM 6-22)
knowledge management
The process of enabling knowledge flow to enhance shared understanding, learning, and
decisionmaking. (ADRP 6-0)
mission command
The exercise of authority and direction by the commander using mission orders to enable disciplined
initiative within the commander’s intent to empower agile and adaptive leaders in the conduct of
unified land operations. (ADP 6-0)
unified action
The synchronization, coordination, and/or integration of the activities of governmental and
nongovernmental entities with military operations to achieve unity of effort. (JP 1)
unified action partners
Those military forces, governmental and nongovernmental organizations, and elements of the private
sector with whom Army forces plan, coordinate, synchronize, and integrate during the conduct of
operations. (ADRP 3-0)
unity of effort
Coordination and cooperation toward common objectives, even if the participants are not necessarily
part of the same command or organization, which is the product of successful unified action. (JP 1)

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

Glossary-1

This page intentionally left blank.

References
All URLS accessed on 8 October 2015.

REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
These documents must be available to intended users of this publication.
ADRP 1-02. Terms and Military Symbols. 2 February 2015.
JP 1-02. Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. 08 November 2010.

RELATED PUBLICATIONS
JOINT PUBLICATIONS
Most joint publications are available online at http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/new_pubs/jointpub.htm.
JP 1. Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States. 25 March 2013.

ARMY PUBLICATIONS
Most Army doctrinal publications are available online at www.apd.army.mil.
ADP 1. The Army. 17 September 2012.
ADP 6-0. Mission Command. 17 May 2012.
ADP 6-22. Army Leadership. 1 August 2012.
ADRP 1. The Army Profession. 14 June 2015.
ADRP 3-0. Unified Land Operations. 16 May 2012.
ADRP 6-0. Mission Command. 17 May 2012.
ADRP 6-22. Army Leadership. 1 August 2012.
ATP 5-0.1. Army Design Methodology. 1 July 2015.
FM 6-22. Leader Development. 30 June 2015.
FM 27-10. The Law of Land Warfare. 18 July 1956.

PRESCRIBED FORMS
This section contains no entries.

REFERENCED FORMS
Unless otherwise indicated, DA forms are available on the Army Publishing Directorate web site at
www.apd.army.mil.
DA Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.

30 October 2015

ATP 6-22.6

References-1

This page intentionally left blank.

Index
Entries are by paragraph number.
A

B

absence of similarities, 2-56
account for common needs,
3-23
accountability, build shared,
3-28–3-30
climate of, 3-32
team member, B-11
acknowledge communication
with feedback, 2-62
acknowledge differences, 2-58
act to control conflict, 4-14–
4-15
activities, team, 3-41
adapt, to change, 4-2–4-4
to demanding challenges,
1-24
additional assessment tools
and techniques, A-13–A-14
addressing difficult
personalities, 2-29
align the team mission, goals,
and expectations, 1-62–1-64
approach other team members
directly, 4-12
approach to conflict resolution,
4-6–4-7
Army team building, defined,
1-6
Army team building process,
1-6
assemble the team , 2-4–2-35
assessing external teams,
A-9–A-12
assessment, additional tools
and techniques, A-13–A-14
individual team leader, A-7
peer, A-8
assessment tools, team, A-1–
A-14
assessments, individual team
member, A-3–A-6
assign the appropriate roles
and responsibilities, 1-58
attributes, negative, 1-75
positive, 1-74
avoid personal attacks, 4-10
avoiding conflict, 4-16–4-17

be an active listener, 2-61
bets, safe, 3-14
build, commitment, 3-2–3-13
opportunities for discussion
and exchange with key
stakeholders, 2-69
shared accountability,
3-28–3-30
shared competence, 3-14–
3-15
shared confidence, 3-16–
3-18
team identity and vision,
B-4
trust, 2-36–2-56
building, relationships, 1-77
trust by increasing
transparency, 2-46–2-47
trust in external teams,
B-7–B-8

30 October 2015

C
cascading messaging, 3-10
categories of teams, 1-27–1-34
challenges, mitigate, 3-9–3-13
to team dynamics, 2-31
change, adapt to, 4-2–4-4
characteristics of effective
teams, 1-19–1-26
adapt to demanding
challenges, 1-24
execute tasks thoroughly
and quickly, 1-22
learn from experiences and
develop pride in
accomplishments, 1-25–
1-26
meet and exceed the
standard, 1-23
trust each other and predict
what each will do, 1-20
work together to accomplish
the mission, 1-21
clarify, 2-60
expectations of team
members’ own
organizations, B-10
goals and responsibilities,
2-78
climate of accountability, 3-32
cohesion, develop, 3-33–3-42
improve the level of, 3-35

ATP 6-22.6

collaboration and dialogue,
1-59–1-61
collaborative successes, 1-66–
1-67
communicate, team
commitments, 3-8
with stakeholders, 2-63–
2-69
communication, acknowledge
with feedback, 2-62
team, 2-57–2-69
understand non-verbal,
2-59
use technology to enhance,
B-14
competence, build shared,
3-14–3-15
misjudgments, 2-55
conduct periodic checks on
team process, 2-35
confidence, build shared,
3-16–3-18
conflict, act to control, 4-14–
4-15
avoiding, 4-16–4-17
manage, 4-5–4-18
management, 4 6–4 18
resolution, 4-6–4-7
types of, 4-8
conflict management, 4-6–4-18
cooperating with other team
members, 1-79
create shared vision, B-5–B-6
creating shared vision and
team identity, 1-42–1-43
cultural differences,
understanding, B-20–B-21

D
deadlines, use and set
milestones, 3-11
define the goal, 2-74
demonstrating flexibility and
adaptability, 1-78
determine motivation, 2-77
develop, a team statement,
1-47
cohesion, 3-33–3-42
team goals and
expectations, 2-79–2-80
discuss operating agreements
and technology, B-18

Index-1

Index

Entries are by paragraph number.
discussing, “who are we” as a
team, 1-46
and establishing the
dynamic for the team,
2-27
distrust, mitigating, 2-48–2-49
diversity, team, 4-28–4-32

E
effective teams, characteristics
of, 1-19–1-26
emotions, sense other
people’s, 4-25–4-27
encourage team identification,
3-4
engage in self-reflection, 1-68
enriching teams, B-12–B-18
enrichment stage, 1-12–1-15,
3-1–3-42
establish, a positive climate,
B-3
goals, 3-32
establishing, a positive climate,
1-38–1-41
an environment of
collaboration and
dialogue, 1-59–1-61
an environment that
embraces learning, 1-71
establishing roles and
responsibilities, 1-53–1-58
assign the appropriate roles
and responsibilities, 1-58
identify team member skills,
1-57
identify the required skills,
1-56
identify the tasks, 1-55
events, planning, 3-27
execute tasks thoroughly and
quickly, 1-22
expressing mutual trust in the
team, 2-39
external teams, 1-31–1-34,
B-1–B-21
assessing, A-9–A-12
building trust in, B-7–B-8
forming, B-2–B-11
sustaining, B-19–B-21
extrinsic motivation, 3-21

F
facilitating relationship building,
2-42
fit the team identity to the
organization and its
leadership, 1-44

Index-2

formation stage, 1-9–1-11,
2-1–2-80
forming external teams, B-2–
B-11
fundamentals of team building,
1-1–1-81

G
get the team ready for work,
2-14–2-15
goals, establish, 3-25
providing clearly stated,
1-50–1-52
reiterate, 3-13
goals and objectives, team and
individual, 3-40
group characteristics, 3-37
group motivation, 3-22

H
having a willingness to help
others, 1-80
hostile intent, never assume,
4-13

I
identification, team, 3-42
identify, and evaluate barriers
to trust, 2-51–2-53
team member skills, 1-57
the required skills, 1-56
the tasks, 1-55
improve the level of cohesion,
3-35
inaccurate information from
others, 2-54
increasing difficulty of training
sessions, 2-43
individual assessment, team
leader, A-7
individuals on the team, 3-38
information management, B-15
integrate new team members,
2-6
internal teams, 1-29–1-30
interview team members, A-4
intrinsic motivation, 3-20

J-K
know indicators of mental
fatigue, 2-34
knowing the strengths and
weaknesses of team
members, 1-72

ATP 6-22.6

knowledge management,
B-16–B-17
defined, B-16

L
leadership, 3-36
learn from experiences and
develop pride in
accomplishments, 1-25–
1-26
learning, about the team
members, 2-28
establishing an environment
that embraces, 1-71

M
maintain a team history, 1-48
manage conflict, 4-5–4-18
manage the team’s workflow,
2-32
management, information,
B-15
knowledge, B-16–B-17
meet and exceed the standard,
1-23
messaging, cascading, 3-10
milestones, set and use
deadlines, 3-11
mission command, defined ,
1-3
mitigate challenges, 3-9–3-13
mitigating distrust, 2-48–2-49
model what the team should
do, 1-70
monitoring and reflecting on
the team’s dynamic, 2-30
motivate team members, 3-19–
3-27
motivation, extrinsic, 3-21
group, 3-22
intrinsic, 3-20
motivational differences,
understand individual, 3-24

N
needs, account for common,
3-23
negative attributes, 1-75
never assume hostile intent,
4-13

O
observe team members, A-5
orientation, 2-9–2-10

30 October 2015

Index

Entries are by paragraph number.
P
peer assessment, A-8
planning events, 3-27
positive attributes, 1-74
prepare, the mental
workspace, 2-19–2-25
the team for likely
challenges, 2-16–2-18
prevent heated outbursts, 4-11
provide the team with a clear
vision, 3-6–3-7
providing, clearly stated goals,
1-50–1-52
feedback to team members,
2-45
opportunities for social
interaction, 2-40

Q-R
rapidly formed teams , 2-70–
2-80
recall previous collaborative
successes, 1-66–1-67
reception, 2-7–2-8
recognize, differences, 2-76
individual expertise, 1-45
that simple does not equal
simplistic, 2-67
recognizing the importance of
maintaining or rebuilding
trust, 2-44
reevaluate the teams identity
periodically, 1-49
reflect on each team member’s
strengths, 1-65
reiterate goals, 3-13
repairing trust, 2-50
respecting others, 1-81
responsibilities, team member,
1-76–1-81
responsive listening, 4-23
reward and recognize team
members, 3-26
reward cooperation, 3-5
roles and responsibilities,
1-35–1-81
assign the appropriate, 1-58
establishing, 1-53–1-58

S
seek, external feedback, 2-68
feedback from the team, 1-69
self-correction, 3-31
self-reflection, engage in, 1-68

30 October 2015

sense other people’s emotions,
4-25–4-27
set, expectations, 2-33
skills, identify required, 1-56
identify team member, 1-57
social networking, B-9
social resilience, strategies
that build, 4-22–4-27
socialization process, 2-11–
2-13
socialize ideas with
stakeholders, 2-66
stages, Army team building,
1-7–1-18
stakeholders, build in
opportunities for discussion
and exchange, 2-69
communicate with, 2-63–
2-69
socialize ideas with, 2-66
study the team’s, 2-65
strategies that build a team’s
social resilience, 4-22–4-27
study the team’s stakeholders,
2-65
sustain resilient teams, 4-19–
4-27
sustaining external teams,
B-19–B-21
sustainment stage, 4-1–4-32

T
taking advantage of breaks,
2-41
talk with others who know the
team members, A-6
tasks, identify, 1-55
team, 2-57–2-69
activities, 3-41
and individual goals and
objectives, 3-40
assessment tools, A-1–
A-14
communicate commitments,
3-8
develop a statement, 1-47
develop goals and
expectations, 2-79–2-80
diversity, 4-28–4-32
history, 3-42
identification, 3-42
individuals on the, 3-38
maintain a history, 1-48
provide with a clear vision,
3-6–3-7

ATP 6-22.6

reevaluate identity
periodically, 1-49
socialization, 3-39
team building, fundamentals
of, 1-1–1-81
team building stages, 1-7–1-18
enrichment stage, 1-12–
1-15
formation stage, 1-9–1-11
sustainment stage, 1-16–
1-18
team dynamics, understand,
2-26–2-31
team identity, build, B-4
team leader individual
assessment, A-7
team leaders, 1-36–1-72
team member, accountability,
B-11
identify skills, 1-57
individual assessments,
A-3–A-6
responsibilities, 1-76–1-81
team members, 1-73–1-81
approach other directly,
4-12
cooperating with other, 1-79
integrate new, 2-6
interview, A-4
knowing the strengths and
weaknesses of, 1-72
learning about, 2-28
observe, A-5
reward and recognize, 3-26
talk with others who know
the, A-6
team vision, build, B-4
teams, assessing external,
A-9–A-12
categories of , 1-27–1-34
characteristics of effective,
1-19–1-26
enriching, B-12–B-18
external, 1-31–1-34
internal, 1-29–1-30
rapidly formed, 2-70–2-80
sustain resilient, 4-19–4-27
that fail to meet the
standard, 4-18
teamwork, B-13
think, about thinking, 2-21
holistically, 2-22
visually, 2-24–2-25
tools, team assessment, A-1–
A-14

Index-3

Index

Entries are by paragraph number.
trust, building by increasing
transparency, 2-46–2-47
each other and predict what
each will do, 1-20
recognizing the importance
of maintaining or
rebuilding, 2-44
repairing, 2-50

types of conflict, 4-8
U
understand, individual
motivational differences,
3-24

Index-4

non-verbal communication,
2-59
others’ motivations, 2-23
team dynamics, 2-26–2-31
understanding cultural
differences, B-20–B-21
unified action, defined, 1-33
unified action partners,
defined, 1-32
unity of effort, defined, 1-34
use, deadlines and set
milestones, 3-11
technology to enhance
communication, B–14

ATP 6-22.6

V
vision, create shared, B-5–B-6

W-X-Y-Z
willingness to share personal
details to others, 4-24
work, collaboratively, 2-75
together to accomplish the
mission, 1-21
workflow, manage the team’s,
2-32
worst-case scenario, 3-12

30 October 2015

$736226
30October2015

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

0$5.$0,//(<
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:

GERALD B. O’KEEFE
Administrative Assistant to the
Secretary of the Army
1528801

DISTRIBUTION:
Active Army, Army National Guard, and United States Army Reserve: Distributed in electronic media
only (EMO).

PIN 105697000

