FM 25-101 Table of Contents RDL Document Download Homepage Information Instructions *FM 25-101 HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY Washington D.C., 30 September 1990 FM 25-101 BATTLE FOCUSED TRAINING Editor's Note: This manual contains charts/diagrams (foldouts) which may not be legible in this format. If required, click "Download Document" at the top of the screen and select the appropriate Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF) file for download. TABLE OF CONTENTS I. PREFACE http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm25101.htm (1 of 4) [1/11/2002 3:16:47 PM] FM 25-101 Table of Contents II. CHAPTER 1 TRAINING OVERVIEW 1. LEADERS AND TRAINING 2. BATTLE FOCUS 3. TRAINING MANAGEMENT III. CHAPTER 2 MISSION ESSENTIAL TASK LIST (METL) DEVELOPMENT 1. KEY POINTS 2. SOURCES 3. SEQUENCE 4. TDA METL DEVELOPMENT 5. INTEGRATION OF SOLDIER, LEADER, AND COLLECTIVE TRAINING 6. BATTLE STAFF 7. BATTLE TASKS 8. TRAINING OBJECTIVES IV. CHAPTER 3 PLANNING 1. ASSESSMENT 2. LONG-RANGE PLANNING 3. SHORT-RANGE PLANNING 4. NEAR-TERM PLANNING 5. PREPARATION FOR TRAINING V. CHAPTER 4 EXECUTION 1. EXECUTION CONSIDERATIONS 2. PRESENTATION OF TRAINING 3. PERFORMANCE OF TRAINING 4. KEYS TO SUCCESS 5. EXAMPLE EXERCISES http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm25101.htm (2 of 4) [1/11/2002 3:16:47 PM] FM 25-101 Table of Contents VI. CHAPTER 5 ASSESSMENT 1. UNIT ASSESSMENT 2. EVALUATION 3. AFTER ACTION REVIEW 4. TRAINING ASSESSMENT 5. EXAMPLE TRAINING ASSESSMENTS VII. APPENDIX A EXAMPLE TRAINING DOCUMENTS VIII. APPENDIX B LEADER DEVELOPMENT 1. UNIT LEADER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 2. LEADER BOOK IX. APPENDIX C TRAINING EXERCISES 1. EXERCISE SELECTION 2. SPECIFIC EXERCISES X. APPENDIX D USE OF TRAINING EVENTS TO MAINTAIN BATTLE FOCUS 1. CTC PROGRAM 2. CTC TRAINING MANAGEMENT INTERFACE XI. APPENDIX E TRAINING AIDS, DEVICES, SIMULATORS, AND SIMULATIONS 1. ELEMENTS OF TADSS 2. USE OF TADSS http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm25101.htm (3 of 4) [1/11/2002 3:16:47 PM] FM 25-101 Table of Contents XII. APPENDIX F EXAMPLE QTB OR YTB XIII. APPENDIX G AFTER ACTION REVIEWS 1. WHAT IS AN AAR ? 2. TYPES OF AFTER ACTION REVIEWS 3. AAR PLANNING, PREPARATION, AND CONDUCT XIV. GLOSSARY XV. REFERENCES XVI. AUTHENTICATION DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION: Approved for public release, distribution is unlimited. Other requests will be referred to Commander, U.S. Army Combined Arms Center and Fort Leavenworth, Attn: ATZL-GOP-SE, Fort Leavenworth, KS 66027-5070. *This publication supersedes FM 25 2,10 September 1984; FM 25-3,12 December 1984; and TC 26- 7, 6 September 1985. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm25101.htm (4 of 4) [1/11/2002 3:16:47 PM] FM 25-101 PREFACE RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions Preface FM 25-101 uses training documents from a notional division, the 52d Infantry Division (Mechanized), as the basis for developing a battalion training program. The 52d Inf Div (Mech) is task-organized with two Active Component (AC) brigades (1st and 2d), one Reserve Component (RC) roundout brigade (313th), and other subordinate divisional units ( Appendix A). A battalion task force, TF 1-77, is a subordinate unit of the 1st Brigade. A tank heavy company team, Team A, is a subunit of Task Force (TF) 1-77. The task organizations for 1st Brigade, TF 1-77, and Team A are also in Appendix A. The remainder of the manual focuses on how to train for combat using examples from TF 1-77 and its associated slice units. Additional training examples for combat support (CS) and combat service support (CSS) units (both AC and RC) are provided throughout the manual. Many of the AC examples were developed using the Standard Army Training System (SATS), a personal computer software package, to assist commanders in implementing FMs 25-100 and 25-101. Specifically, SATS' major functions allow the use of Army Training and Evaluation Program (ARTEP) mission training plan (MTP) and training and evaluation outline (T&EO) data bases to support mission essential task list (METL) development and assessment. SATS also provides automated assistance for developing training schedules and calendars, and managing operating tempo (OPTEMPO), ammunition, and Class III. The manual contains the following information: ● Chapter 1 provides a training overview. ● Chapter 2 explains the METL development process. ● Chapter 3 describes the long-range, short-range, and near-term phases of the training planning process. ● Chapter 4 discusses the execution of training. ● Chapter 5 explains how leaders use evaluations and other training feedback to conduct unit assessments. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_1.htm (1 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:16:50 PM] FM 25-101 PREFACE ● The appendixes provide additional information to assist leaders in planning, executing, and assessing training in units. They provide examples and helpful techniques and procedures that can be readily applied to specific training situations for AC and RC units. Unless this publication states otherwise, masculine nouns or pronouns do not refer exclusively to men. The proponent of this publication is HQ TRADOC. Send comments and recommendations on DA Form 2028 (Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms) directly to Commander, U.S. Army Combined Arms Center, ATTN: ATZL-SWW-L, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas 66027-6900. FOREWORD Training is the Army's top priority; it prepares us to fight. As leaders, our sacred responsibility is to ensure that no soldier ever dies in combat because that soldier was not properly trained. Training is the cornerstone of readiness and the basis for credible deterrence and capable defense. Training is the means by which the Army's quality soldiers and leaders develop their warfighting proficiency and exercise the collective capabilities they will require in combat. Training prepares soldiers, leaders, and units to fight and win in war--the Army's basic mission. While senior leaders determine the direction and goals of training, it is the officers and noncommissioned officers at battalion, company, and platoon level who ensure that every training activity is well planned and rigorously executed. This manual is for them--the leaders at battalion level and below. FM 25-100, Training The Force, established our training doctrine. FM 25-101, Battle Focused Training, applies this doctrine and assists leaders in the development and execution of training programs. It provides practical "how to" guidelines for officers and NCOs, including techniques and procedures for planning, executing, and assessing training. Above all, FM 25-101 builds on the emphasis in FM 26-100 on the importance of battle focus in training. Our duty as leaders is to provide demanding and realistic training for our soldiers. FM 25-101 will help us do that, and I expect all officers and NCOs, particularly those in battalion- and company-level units, to understand and apply the methods discussed in it. Leaders at every level must redouble their commitment to tough, realistic training. Training is the Army's top priority and don't you forget it! Carl E. Vuono General, United States Army Chief of Staff http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_1.htm (2 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:16:50 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions CHAPTER 1 TRAINING OVERVIEW Training is the cornerstone of readiness--it is the top priority for the Total Army. General Carl E. Vuono The Army exists to deter war or, if deterrence fails, to win in combat. For deterrence to be effective, our enemies must know that the Army can mobilize, deploy, fight, and sustain combat operations. Effective training molds human and material resources into cohesive, combat-ready units. To be successful in combat, the Army must train continually to develop and maintain combat-ready soldiers, leaders, and units that can perform assigned tasks to specific standards. The requirement for training continues even during wartime (especially within the combat zone). Training builds self-confidence, promotes teamwork and esprit de corps, and increases professionalism in soldiers, leaders, and units. LEADERS AND TRAINING COMMANDER'S ROLE Effective training requires the personal time, energy, and guidance of commanders. Commanders must personally observe and assess training at all echelons. Their specific emphasis is on training one level down and evaluating two levels down; for example, battalion commanders train company commanders with their companies and evaluate platoon leaders with their platoons. Company commanders train platoon leaders with their platoons and evaluate section, squad, team, and crew leaders with their units. Commanders must-- ● Develop and communicate a clear vision or intent. This vision is based on an understanding of the following: - Unit's mission, doctrine, and history. - Unit capabilities, to include strengths and weaknesses. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (1 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview - Supporting and supported units' doctrine and capabilities. - Enemy capabilities. - Training philosophy. - Training environment (geographic dispersion, location, or unique ● Train the trainer. They must-- - Develop junior leaders. - Ensure subordinate leaders understand and use leader development programs. ● Establish a safe, realistic training program that is based on and enforces the Army's standards of performance. ● Foster a command climate which-- - Promotes learning. - Allows honest mistakes. - Encourages open communications and disagreement without fear of retribution. Instills discipline in units. ● Be personally involved in planning, executing, and assessing training. ● State their expectations of what the unit should achieve by the end of the training period (expected levels of proficiency on mission essential task list (METL) tasks). ● Protect units from training distracters by ruthlessly enforcing the lock in of major events agreed upon during training briefings and contained in the signed training schedules. ● Ensure subordinate commanders understand the importance of training meetings (weekly for AC, monthly for RC), rigidly enforce their conduct, and (periodically) attend them. ● Protect resources (ranges, ammunition, land, training aids, and time) for training. ● Personally visit training to-- - Show that training is the top priority. - Observe and assess the execution of subordinate training at all levels to ensure training is conducted to standard. - Assess leader development and provide developmental feedback and guidance as coach, teacher, and mentor. - Direct changes to improve unit training and enhance warfighting capability (within scope of unit training objectives, using the chain of command). - Ensure quality of external training support and resolve systemic problems. LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES In addition to the above commander's responsibilities, all leaders must require their subordinates to understand and perform their roles in training ( Figure 1-1). The commander assigns primary responsibility to officers for collective training and to noncommissioned officers (NCOs) for soldier training. NCOs also have responsibility to train sections, squads, teams, and crews. The commander is responsible to meld leader and soldier training requirements into collective training events using multiechelon techniques. Additionally, all leaders must-- ● Train the combined arms team to be proficient on its mission essential tasks. This includes training soldiers, leaders, subordinate units, and supporting elements. The key is to train the leader with the unit. Special attention must be paid to training newly assigned lieutenants and sergeants as they train with their platoons, and newly promoted sergeants as they train with their sections, squads, teams, and crews. ● Centralize training planning to maintain unit focus on the wartime mission. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (2 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview ● Decentralize execution to allow subordinate leaders the flexibility to focus training on their units' strengths and weaknesses. ● Establish effective communications at all levels. Leaders must talk to one another and exchange information. Guidance on wartime missions and priorities flows down; soldier, leader, and collective training needs flow up. Training meetings, briefings, and after action reviews (AARs) are the primary forums for the exchange of training information among leaders. ● Demand training standards be achieved. They must-- - Plan time for additional training to allow for tasks not performed to standard. - Plan to train a realistic number of tasks during a training event. It is better to train to standard on a few tasks than fail to achieve the standard on many. Soldiers will remember the enforced standard. ● Understand the role of the RC and the nature of the RC training environment. About half of today's total Army force structure is in the RC: the Army National Guard (ARNG) and US Army Reserve (USAR). RC units are required to train to the same standard on each task as AC units. However, they train fewer tasks because of-- - Reduced training time. - Geographical dispersion. - Availability of equipment for training. - Adequate training areas. Many RC units operate within two different chains of command. RC units receive their wartime missions through their CAPSTONE chain of command. Their peacetime chain of command, however, provides training guidance and the day-to-day command and control. Additionally, the peacetime chain of command reviews and approves resources for RC units to train on mission essential tasks. Figure 1-1. PRINCIPLES OF TRAINING Leaders must know and understand the principles of training to effectively train their units. The principles provide direction, but are sufficiently flexible to accommodate local conditions and the judgment of commanders and other leaders. The nine principles of training are-- ● Train as combined arms and services team. ● Train as you fight. ● Use appropriate doctrine. ● Use performance-oriented training. ● Train to challenge. ● Train to sustain proficiency. ● Train using multiechelon techniques. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (3 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview ● Train to maintain. ● Make commanders the primary trainers. Train as Combined Arms and Services Team The greatest combat power results when leaders synchronize combat, combat support (CS), and combat service support (CSS) systems to complement and reinforce one another. The slice concept refers to CS and CSS units task- organized to support a particular maneuver or combined arms unit. Leaders should routinely practice habitual relationship and cross attachment of units. Habitual relationship of supporting elements builds cohesion and a winning spirit. Habitual relationship also helps each element understand how it contributes to fight the battle. The team works together. All slice team members, particularly officers and key NCOs, must be present at every opportunity. This includes staff meetings, training meetings, and social events. Figure 1-2 shows a representative battalion task force (TF) and company team with their slice elements. RC units may have difficulty training as a combined arms team during inactive duty training (IDT) because of the dispersion of combat arms, CS, and CSS units. RC commanders must therefore emphasize slice training during annual training (AT). Train as You Fight Units should train in peacetime as they will fight during war. Peacetime training must replicate battlefield conditions. All training is based on this principle. Leaders must ensure that soldiers are trained to cope with complex, stressful, and lethal situations they will encounter in combat. They do this by-- Figure 1-2. Battalion Task Force. ● Demanding high standards, but initially accepting less than desired results. They sequentially increase the level of difficulty of conditions to attain the Army standard on tasks. ● Training soldiers, leaders, and units in a near wartime environment, not in the classroom. Leaders make training conditions as realistic as possible. ● Ensuring all training is tactically oriented. This includes CS and CSS. ● Ensuring that opposing forces (OPFOR) use appropriate threat doctrine, tactics, and equipment. ● Integrating realistic conditions into training, such as-- --Loss of key leaders. --Smoke. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (4 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview --Casualty evacuation. --Noise. --Simulated nuclear, biological, chemical (NBC) situations. --Battlefield debris. --Limited visibility (night). --Loss or jamming of communications. Leaders must ensure realistic training is safe. Safety awareness protects combat power. Historically, more casualties occur in combat due to accidents than from enemy action. Ensuring that realistic training is safe instills the awareness that will save lives in combat. Conducting realistic training is challenging business. The goal of the chain of command is not training first nor safety first, but training safely. The commander is the safety officer. He is ultimately responsible for unit safety; however, every soldier is responsible for safe training. This includes leaders throughout the chain of command, not just range safety officers and NCOs, observer-controllers (OCs), and installation safety officers. Use Appropriate Doctrine Training must conform to Army doctrine. Doctrinal manuals provide leaders correct procedures and principles in order to conduct training properly. When units are cross-attached, these manuals provide common doctrine and standard operational methods to permit rapid adjustment on the battlefield. Leaders and soldiers must understand standardized doctrinal principles found in applicable-- ● Field manuals (FMs). ● Training circulars (TCs). ● Mission training plans (MTPs). ● Drill books. ● Soldier's manuals (SMs). ● Army regulations (ARs). When Army standards are not published, leaders must develop standards that are challenging, attainable, and easily evaluated. Because leaders two levels up are responsible for evaluating training, they should approve the developed standards. Soldiers and leaders must understand the standards; for example, each soldier must hit four of five targets in his sector during a squad attack live fire exercise (LFX). Use Performance-Oriented Training http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (5 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview Soldiers, leaders, and units must be proficient in the basic skills required to perform their missions under battlefield conditions. This requires hands-on training. For example, all soldiers and leaders should conduct both mounted and dismounted land navigation courses instead of relying only on classroom instruction. Soldiers train better and faster, and to a higher degree of proficiency, when they know the tasks, conditions, and standards. Likewise, training becomes more effective when it is performance-oriented (can the soldier perform to standard?), rather than procedure-oriented (did the instructor use the right lesson plan?), or time-oriented (the training schedule calls for four hours on this subject). Enforcing standards helps leaders identify and correct training deficiencies, giving them a more accurate assessment of combat capabilities. As soldier performance levels increase, conditions under which tasks are performed become more demanding while standards remain constant. Soldiers and leaders must execute the planned training, assess performance, and retrain until Army standards are met under the most difficult wartime conditions. The same standards must be enforced on a task whether it is performed individually or as part of a larger operation. For example, the squad leader enforces individual movement techniques during squat training as well as when executed as part of a company attack exercise. Soldier and leader training must occur continually and be fully integrated into collective training. Train to Challenge Training that is tough, realistic, and mentally and physically challenging excites and motivates soldiers and leaders. Challenging training-- ● Builds competence and confidence by developing new skills. ● Instills loyalty and dedication. ● Inspires excellence by fostering initiative, enthusiasm, and eagerness to learn. ● Builds aggressive, well-trained soldiers. Leaders must make all training safe, challenging, and as close to wartime conditions as possible. Routinely operating in NBC and electronic warfare (EW) environment enhances the training challenge. Innovative leaders seize every opportunity to increase training value for soldiers, leaders, and units. Train to Sustain Proficiency Once soldiers and units have trained to the standard, they maintain proficiency through sustainment training. Sustainment training-- ● Trains on tasks which build on skills mastered by the soldier, leader, and unit. ● Uses opportunity training to constantly hone proficiency on known tasks. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (6 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview Opportunity training is the conduct of preselected, preplanned critical tasks that require little explanation. It is conducted when proficiency has been reached on the scheduled primary training task and time is available. Unscheduled breaks in exercises or assembly area operations, or while waiting for transportation, provide time for opportunity training. Creative, aggressive leaders use this time to sustain the skills of their soldiers and units. For example, an ADA crew leader may conduct opportunity training on aircraft identification while waiting to have his crew's Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement System (MILES) rekeyed during a field training exercise (FTX). Units naturally fluctuate in proficiency because of many factors, including training frequency, key personnel turnover, new equipment fielding, and resource constraints. Well-trained units' training programs minimize peaking for selected events or at predetermined times. This is training in a band of excellence. An example of how the TF 1-77 commander planned his yearly sustainment training to remain in a band of excellence is at Figure 1-3. His plan repeats critical training at the minimum frequency necessary for sustainment. This commonsense approach precludes deep valleys in proficiency that would require a great amount of resources and time to retrain the unit on its wartime mission. Sustainment training within a band of excellence is the key to combat readiness. Train Using Multiechelon Techniques Multiechelon training is the simultaneous training of more than one echelon on different tasks. Examples of multiechelon training are the concurrent conduct of different exercises by subordinate elements in a unit, and the training of different tasks by elements of the same unit. Commanders must maintain a focus on their units' wartime mission to determine those multiechelon events required to train the units. Prior to a multiechelon training event, commanders assess their units' proficiency to determine the tasks to be trained. Tasks for soldiers and leaders must be identified to support collective training. Leaders set and announce training objectives for subordinate leaders and soldiers participating in the training. If subordinate leaders know what training will occur during a scheduled major training exercise, they can plan prerequisite training and training to overcome particular known weaknesses. While leaders are being trained on leader tasks, they are still responsible to ensure collective and soldier training is done to standard. Figure 1-3. For example, a battalion commander determines an upcoming battalion FTX will include a deliberate defense. He informs his subordinate leaders of his decision. The battalion staff and subordinate commanders plan to train specific subtasks associated with the deliberate defense. Because of the units' assessed weaknesses, commanders might also focus on the following: ● Alpha Company--preparation of individual fighting positions. ● Bravo Company--patrolling procedures. ● Charlie Company--emplacement of obstacles. ● Delta Company--direct fire synchronization. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (7 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview The battalion staff and specialty platoons, such as the scout, mortar, and medical platoons, also focus on specific training objectives in support of the deliberate defense. At all levels, leaders select specific training objectives for subordinate leaders and soldiers, such as individual movement techniques, squad formations, and land navigation. The key for leaders is to know their units' strengths and weaknesses. They then plan to train, assess, and retrain to correct the performance of those tasks selected for training. Units should always use a multiechelon approach to training. It maximizes resources such as time, ammunition, and firing ranges. Multiechelon training is the most effective way to train and sustain each echelon within the unit. Train to Maintain The standard for the Army is to train and maintain to the published standards in Technical Manuals (TMs) -10 and - 20. Maintenance is vital to training. If you don't maintain, you can't train! Training cannot happen if essential equipment and systems (such as tracks, weapons, wheeled vehicles, or radios) are nonmission capable (NMC). Everyone (leaders, maintenance personnel, and operators) must be trained and involved to improve and sustain the unit's maintenance posture. In war, soldiers and crews perform preventive maintenance checks and services (PMCS) under combat conditions and without the normal direction and supervision of superiors. This requires maintenance personnel, and equipment or vehicle operators, who are proficient in their maintenance duties. Leaders must plan training objectives for command maintenance periods and ensure they are executed to standard. They must train the trainer to train soldiers to meet Army maintenance standards. Trainers must instill an understanding of, and the know-how to perform, day- to-day maintenance operations. Leaders and soldiers must constantly hone their tactical and maintenance skills to be successful on the battlefield. Training must focus on the total unit maintenance concept with safe procedures emphasized during all maintenance activities. All maintenance must be on the unit training schedule. It must focus on the total unit, to include-- ● The soldier, and his uniforms. ● The soldier's equipment, such as common table of allowances (CTA) 50, weapons, and protective mask. ● Major end items, such as tracked and wheeled vehicles, helicopters, and shop vans. Scheduled maintenance allows units to "train to maintain." Drivers training is an important part of the unit's training program and must be integrated into the overall schedule. Time must also be allotted for maintenance and other logistical personnel (supply, cooks, or mechanics) to maintain their equipment to standard. The training schedule must also include weekly PMCS, equipment services, and command maintenance programs. Soldiers must understand PMCS requirements and how they are executed. Leaders must integrate soldiers into maintenance by maintaining the entire system, not just pieces of the system. For example, a Bradley fighting vehicle (BFV) squad would focus on maintaining weapons, radios, basic issue items (BII), NBC equipment, as well as the http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (8 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview vehicle. If you don't train how to maintain, you can't maintain! The commanders, command sergeant major (CSM), and first sergeants (1sgs) instill in soldiers and leaders the importance of keeping equipment in the fight. The commander reviews the unit maintenance proficiency based on readiness standards, completion of scheduled equipment services, and identified training weaknesses. During the weekly training meeting, he adjusts the emphasis on the unit's maintenance training program to correct identified shortcomings. Make Commanders (Leaders) the Primary Trainers At all levels, commanders and leaders must be personally involved in training to train the trainer. Brigade commanders train the battalion commander and his staff. Battalion commanders train company commanders with their companies; company commanders train platoon leaders with their platoons; platoon leaders train squad leaders with their squads; and NCOs train sections, squads, teams, crews, and soldiers. For commanders, an important part of training junior leaders is developing them. The CSM, 1SGs, and platoon sergeants (PSGs) must also actively participate in leader training and development. Leader development is the process the Army uses to develop competent, confident leaders. The leader development process is assessment, feedback, additional training and reinforcement, education, training, experience, and selection for advancement. This cycle occurs in a logical sequence; each step builds on past successes. The cycle also progresses sequentially to challenges of greater scope. The commander plays a critical role in the development of the unit's junior leaders. This, more than anything else he does, impacts on the future of the Army. He must ensure the unit's leader development program meets the needs of the organization and of the junior leaders. To do so, he must take advantage of opportunities for the leader and the unit through-- ● Unit leader development training, which includes varied assignments and METL-based training. ● Institutional training. ● Structured self-development training. Unit programs for leader development through operational assignments are focused at battalion and separate company level. These programs must be-- ● Driven by the METL and the professional development needs of junior leaders. ● Based on Army doctrine. Leader development programs must address officers, warrant officers, and NCOs. The program should be published and disseminated throughout the unit. It should include-- http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (9 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview ● A reception and integration phase for incorporating new leaders into the unit. ● A basic skills development phase that brings the leader to a minimum acceptable level of proficiency in critical tasks. ● An advanced development and sustainment phase that sustains basic skills, trains the leaders to a higher level of proficiency in critical tasks, and integrates the leader into the unit's continuing professional development program. Institutional programs comprise the Army School System's formal resident training. This formal training is a key part of the unit commander's leader development program. Commanders take advantage of opportunities to send their leaders to training which benefits both the unit and the individual leader. Further, commanders remain abreast of selection criteria for competitive institutional training, such as-- ● Noncommissioned Officer Education System (NCOES) Courses. ● The Warrant Officer Senior Course and the Master Warrant Course. ● Command and Staff College (CSC). Self-development programs enhance the leader's overall professional competency. The military qualification standards (MQS) system, the three-level program for officers (precommissioning, company grade, and field grade), provides a common structure to leader development programs. For self-development to be most effective, the commander and his junior leaders must share the responsibility for maintaining and increasing proficiency. The commander determines where his leaders are in their career-long programs of self-development. He then assists them in designing meaningful action plans for their future development. These include recommended professional reading, correspondence courses, and civilian education as time and resources permit. Leader development occurs in the formal school system; it occurs in METL-based training in operational (unit) assignments; and it occurs in the individual leader's self-development programs. A balanced (officer and NCO) unit program should also incorporate other proven professional development components. Additional programs can include, but are not limited to, the following: ● Tactical exercises without troops (TEWTs). ● Terrain rides. ● Battle analysis seminars. ● Computer-assisted simulations. ● Certification programs. ● Shared experiences and periodic change of duty programs. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (10 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview ● Guest lectures. ● Unit professional associations. ● History classes and exhibits. ● Professional reading programs. Commanders can adapt these to the unit's needs, local conditions, traditions, and their own preferences. Each commander's leader development program will be unique. He develops the unit's program with the assistance of the CSM or the 1SG. To be most effective, the commander must continually listen to, understand, and mentor junior leaders. He must challenge their depth of knowledge and competence. However structured, the program's quality, and its results, depend on how well the commander increases his subordinates' proficiency and motivates them to seek higher levels of excellence throughout their service to the Army. One example of a unit leader development program is at Appendix B. BATTLE FOCUS Battle focus is a concept used to derive peacetime training requirements from wartime missions. Units cannot achieve and sustain proficiency on all possible soldier, leader, and collective tasks. Commanders must selectively identify and train on those tasks that accomplish the unit's critical wartime mission. The METL serves as the focal point on which commanders plan, execute, and assess training. This is critical throughout the entire training process and aids commanders in allocating resources for training. It also enables the commander to tailor the unit development training for those leader competencies required to execute Army warfighting doctrine. Critical to the battle focus concept is understanding the linkage between the collective mission essential tasks and the leader and soldier tasks which support them. The CSM and NCO leaders must select specific soldier tasks that support each collective task to be focused on during training. NCOs are primarily responsible for training soldier tasks. Leaders at every level remain responsible for training to established standards during soldier, leader and unit training. Figure 1-4 depicts the influence of battle focus on the integration of collective and soldier training. Figure 1-4. Integration of collective and soldier training. TRAINING MANAGEMENT The training management approach to implement the battle focus is shown in Figure 1-5. It is a continuous process centering on feedback to enable leaders to properly focus peacetime training on their wartime mission. Assessment is conducted throughout the training management cycle. The METL development process will be discussed in Chapter 2. It is shown outside the cycle reflecting a requirement to only review the METL after it has been initially approved. The planning process, Chapter 3, is based http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (11 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 1 Training Overview on the commander's assessment and focuses on identified strengths and weaknesses which enable the commander to determine which soldier, leader, and collective tasks require additional training. This allows for initial, refresher, or sustainment training, covered in Chapter 4, on the subtasks which keep the task from being performed to standard. Chapter 5 describes the assessment process the leader uses to plan subsequent training. Figure 1-5. Training Management Cycle. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_2.htm (12 of 12) [1/11/2002 3:16:55 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions CHAPTER 2 MISSION ESSENTIAL TASK LIST (METL) DEVELOPMENT Do essential things first. Each commander what is essential and assign responsibilities for accomplishment. Nonessentials should not take up time required for essentials. General Bruce C. Clarke This chapter addresses the procedures that battalion and company commanders use to develop their units' METLs. It also describes the development of soldier, leader, and collective tasks and training objectives that support the METL's accomplishment. This chapter focuses on newly assigned commanders who are reviewing their METLs for the first time. It also addresses commanders who receive new wartime missions which cause them to adjust their METL or develop a new METL. Battle focus drives the METL development process. The METL is based on the wartime mission; the unit must train as it plans to fight. Commanders develop METLs because units cannot obtain proficiency on every possible task. The METL development process ( Figure 2-1) allows the commander to narrow the training requirements to an achievable number; it is the same for Active and Reserve Components. KEY POINTS Figure 2-1. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (1 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development Resource availability does not affect METL development. The METL is an unconstrained statement of tasks required to accomplish wartime missions. Wartime commanders must recognize the peacetime training limitations faced by subordinates and tailor wartime missions within these practical constraints. If a commander determines his unit cannot execute all the tasks on the unit's METL to standard, he must request an adjustment of the unit's mission. The commander determines which tasks he can train and execute. He then negotiates with his wartime commander to ensure the mission and METL are consistent. RC commanders coordinate with their first wartime commander to ensure assigned missions are as specific as possible; they coordinate with the peacetime chain of command for training resources. The METL is not prioritized. It may be changed or adjusted if wartime missions change. Commanders reexamine the METL periodically to ensure it still supports the wartime mission. The METL must support and complement the METL of the next higher headquarters and the supported wartime unit for CS and CSS units. This is especially important for battalion and lower units assigned to echelons above division; for example, a supply and services company, general support. In addition, the METL-- ● Must be understood by the CSM and key NCOs so that they can integrate soldier tasks. ● Must apply to the entire unit. ● May vary for like units because of different wartime missions or locations. ● Must be briefed to and approved by the next higher wartime commander. Some RC units may be unable to conduct in-person briefings to their higher wartime headquarters. In those cases, commanders must use other means such as messages or mail to get their METL approved. Other points concerning METL development follow: ● Company is the lowest level unit that prepares a METL. ● Battalion staffs develop staff METLs which are approved by the battalion commander. ● Battalion commanders must ensure staff, supporting slice, and company METLs are properly coordinated and mutually supporting. ● Commanders create a team approach to METL development by involving all subordinate leaders. ● Combat task organizations may be tailored as heavy, light, special operations, or any combination to meet specific mission requirements. When mission, enemy, terrain, troops, and time available (METT- T) dictate changes in a force mix, such as heavy and light, commanders must understand each unit's http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (2 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development capabilities and limitations when reexamining the METL. The same applies to joint and combined operations. SOURCES Commanders determine their units' METLs based on war plans and external directives. War plans consist of the unit's anticipated wartime missions, operations plans, and contingency plans. External directives may include-- ● CAPSTONE mission guidance letters. ● Mobilization plans. ● Installation wartime transition and deployment plans. ● Force integration plans. The primary source for tasks is doctrinal manuals, such as FM 17-97 for a regimental armored cavalry troop or FM 33-1 for a psychological operations unit. At battalion and company levels, the applicable MTP is a good start point for selecting collective tasks to support the mission. When no MTP exists, leaders may develop task lists using the following sources: ● Table of organization and equipment (TO&E). ● General defense plan (GDP). ● Tactical standing operating procedures (TSOPs). ● Technical manuals (TMs). ● Readiness standing operating procedures (RSOPs). ● State wartime contingency plans for ARNG. SEQUENCE The battalion commander follows this sequence in METL development. He-- ● Receives the brigade mission and METL and analyzes the mission to identify specified and implied tasks. He also reviews war plans and other external directives to help identify those tasks. ● Restates the unit's wartime mission. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (3 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development ● Determines and selects the tasks critical for wartime mission accomplishment, which become the unit's METL. ● Gets approval of the unit's METL from the commander. ● Provides the approved METL to his staff and company commanders. Using the same procedures, the battalion staff and company commanders select METL tasks which are approved by the battalion commander. To illustrate METL development, the following paragraphs show the steps the TF 1-77 commander used in developing his METL. The examples are developed based on the division and brigade missions and METLs in Appendix A. BATTALION COMMANDER'S ANALYSIS The TF 1-77 commander received the 1st Brigade's wartime mission, METL, and war plans. He then-- ● Analyzed these documents and other external directives to identify his specified and implied tasks. ● Used the operation-to-collective task matrix found in ARTEP 71-2-MTP to determine the collective tasks in support of the critical wartime missions. These critical wartime operations are offensive, defensive, retrograde, reconnaissance and security, and movement to contact. Additionally, several tasks are annotated that were derived from the battalion's war plans. ● Logically compiled and sequenced these collective tasks as he expected them to occur during execution of the unit's wartime mission. A sample of the TF's collective tasks is at Figure 2-2. Figure 2-2. Sample TF 1-77 tasks. The battalion commanders of CS and CSS battalions use the same analytical process to determine their task lists. Sample CS and CSS task lists (not all inclusive) for divisional CS and CSS units are at Figures 2-3 and 2-4. A sample nondivisional MP battalion task list is at Figure 2-5. Figure 2-3. Figure 2-4. Sample forward support battalion (FSB) tasks. The TF commander then restated his wartime mission: http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (4 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development At D-Day, H-Hour, TF 1-77 deploys by air and sea, draws equipment, moves to and occupies designated assembly areas, and organizes for combat. On order, moves to assigned sector to defend. Be prepared to counterattack. On order, conduct offensive operations. Figure 2-5. The TF commander analyzed the restated mission and selected from the task list only those tasks essential to accomplish his unit's wartime mission. These tasks make up his METL. Figure 2-6 shows a sample METL resulting from TF 1-77 commander's wartime mission analysis. The engineer, FSB, and MP battalion commanders used the same process as the TF 1-77 commander to determine their mission essential tasks. Figures 2-7, 2-8, and 2-9 show sample METLs resulting from the engineer, FSB, and MP commanders' analyses. APPROVAL OF BATTALION METL Once the METL is developed, the battalion commander briefs his next higher wartime commander who approves the METL. For example,TF 1-77 commander briefed the 1st Brigade commander; the divisional engineer battalion commander briefed the division commander; and the FSB commander briefed the division support command (DISCOM) commander. The corps MP battalion commander briefed the MP brigade commander. The TF 1-77 commander provided his restated wartime mission and approved METL to his staff and company commanders. As depicted in TF 1-77 task organization (Appendix A), Team A is a tank heavy subordinate unit of TF 1-77. Figure 2-6. Sample TF 1-77 METL. Figure 2-7. Sample divisional engineer battalion METL. Figure 2-8. Sample FSB METL Figure 2-9. Sample MP battalion METL. COMPANY COMMANDER'S ANALYSIS During the METL development process, the Team A commander-- ● Analyzed the TF commander's restated wartime mission and approved METL. Using the same process, he identified his specified and implied tasks. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (5 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development ● Used the mission-to-collective task matrix found in ARTEP 71-1-MTP to determine the collective tasks in support of critical wartime missions. These critical wartime missions are Movement to Contact, Attack, Raid, Ambush, Reconnaissance and Security, Defend, and Retrograde. He also identified other tasks required to execute war plans. ● Sequenced the collective tasks as he expected them to occur during the execution of his wartime mission. A sample list of Team A collective tasks is at Figure 2-10. The company commanders of an engineer company and a supply company would use the same analytical process to determine their task lists. Sample lists of their collective tasks are at Figures 2-11 and 2-12. Figure 2-10. Sample Team A tasks. Figure 2-11. Sample engineer company tasks. Figure 2-12. Sample supply company tasks. The Team A commander then determined his restated wartime mission which follows: At D-Day, H-Hour, Team A deploys by air and sea, draws equipment, moves to and occupies assembly area. On order, defends from assigned battle position. On order, conducts a counterattack to defeat the enemy. Be prepared to conduct offensive operations. The Team A commander analyzed the restated mission and selected from the task list only those tasks essential to accomplish his wartime mission. These mission essential tasks make up his METL. Figure 2-13 shows a sample METL resulting from Team A commander's wartime mission analysis. Figures 2-14 and 2- 15 show sample METLs resulting from the engineer and supply company commanders' analyses for their units. APPROVAL OF COMPANY METL After the company commander develops the METL, he briefs the battalion commander. For example, the Team A commander briefed the TF 1-77 commander; the engineer company commander briefed the engineer battalion commander; and the commander of the supply company briefed the FSB commander. The battalion commander approves the company METL. Figure 2-13. Figure 2-14. Sample engineer company METL. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (6 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development Figure 2-15. Sample supply company METL. TDA METL DEVELOPMENT Tables of distribution and allowances (TDA) unit leaders must also develop a battle focused METL that enables them to accomplish their assigned missions. The METL development process is the same as for TO&E units. This METL must reflect a task list derived by integrating required primary support mission tasks with warfighting skills. These tasks range from wartime mobilization requirements to support for disasters or local emergencies. Some missions may not change for TDA units during wartime (soldier and equipment support requirements for US Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) schools and in support of recurring garrison or installation tasks). For example, training battalions and companies would continue to train soldiers and leaders. A sample TDA METL is at Figure 2-16. Figure 2-16. Sample basic training battalion METL INTEGRATION OF SOLDIER, LEADER, AND COLLECTIVE TRAINING Company is the lowest level to have a METL. The Team A commander gives to his chain of command the mission and METL for accomplishing the company's wartime mission. SELECTION OF PLATOON AND SQUAD COLLECTIVE TASKS From the company mission and METL, the platoon leader and PSG from 1st Platoon, Team A, determined their collective tasks. They used the following process: ● Used the mission-to-collective task matrix found in ARTEP 7-8-MTP to determine platoon collective tasks that support each company mission essential task. ● Determined which collective tasks support more than one company mission essential task to identify high payoff tasks. For example, Collective Task 7-3/4-1025, Move Tactically, is required for most company mission essential tasks. ● Presented selected platoon collective tasks to Team A commander to obtain his guidance and approval. The Team A commander used mission, enemy, terrain, troops, and time available (METT- T) analysis, resource availability, and unit status analysis to select the most important platoon tasks. The 1st Platoon leader and PSG assisted the 2d Squad leader in determining the squad collective tasks to accomplish the platoon collective tasks. They used the same process as above to select these tasks. The 1st Platoon leader approved the 2d Squad collective tasks. Sample lists of the 1st Platoon and 2d Squad's http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (7 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development collective tasks are at Figure 2-17. SELECTION OF LEADER AND SOLDIER TASKS Leader and soldier tasks must be identified at the appropriate level to support the accomplishment of the unit mission essential tasks. Figure 2-18 identifies leaders that select, review, and approve NCO leader and soldier tasks. Leader tasks can be found in the appropriate soldier training publication (STP), MQS, MTP, or SM. Figure 2- 19 shows a small sample of leader tasks for the infantry platoon leader and subordinate NCOs from Team A. The company commander used ARTEP 7-8-MTP to identify platoon leader tasks. The 1SG and key NCOs used STP 7-11M14-SM-TG and STP 7-11B14-SM-TG to identify NCO leader tasks. Leaders must be proficient on these and other specified leader tasks before conducting collective training. Train the trainer to train his soldiers. CS and CSS leaders may have similar documents available. When no published leader tasks exist, they must develop them using doctrinal manuals, other proponent school publications, and common task manuals. For example, STP 10-94B25-SM-TG provides CSS leader tasks for a food service NCO. Some skill level 3 sample tasks from the STP are-- ● Establish layout of field feeding areas. ● Supervise operation and maintenance of the mobile kitchen trailer (MKT). ● Supervise field kitchen sanitation operations. ● Supervise personnel in cleaning and maintenance of field feeding equipment. ● Request and turn in subsistence. Leaders must determine which subordinate leader tasks will be incorporated into collective training. Unit leaders select soldier tasks to support squad and platoon collective tasks using the collective-to-soldier task matrix found in the appropriate ARTEP MTPs. They do this for each skill level within the unit. An example of skill level 1 tasks found in ARTEP 7-8-MTP which support the task Defend in Team A is at Figure 2-20. Figure 2-17. Sample 1st Platoon and 2d Squad collective tasks. Figure 2-18. Task approval matrix. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (8 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development Figure 2-19. Sample leader tasks. The CSM and key NCOs review and refine the supporting soldier tasks for each skill level in every MOS within the unit. They pay particular attention to low-density MOS tasks. Leader books are a valuable tool to track tasks for which subordinates must be proficient. Information on the leader book is in Appendix B. All leaders and soldiers must perform applicable common tasks and military occupational specialty (MOS)- specific tasks. There are 85 common tasks and 70 MOS-specific tasks in ARTEP 7-8-MTP. This list of 155 tasks will be too large to reasonably sustain because of limited training time and other resource restrictions. Leaders use battle focus to refine the list to mission related tasks that are essential to thesoldier's duty position. This list of leader and soldier tasks is analyzed to eliminate duplication. For example, the squad leader and team leaders in a BFV squad first selected the common tasks they determined as essential for all skill level 1 squad members. Figure 2-21 is a sample of their common tasks. The leaders next identified tasks essential to both the soldiers' duty positions and to duty positions for which they are being cross trained. Figure 2-22 (a and b)is a sample of tasks by soldier's positions. The integration of soldier, leader, and collective tasks with the METL mutually supports the unit's wartime mission. The relationship of essentialsoldier and leader tasks to squad and platoon collective tasks and the company mission essential tasks for Team A is at Figure 2-23. Another example of how soldier, leader, and collective tasks are integrated into a CS company follows at Figures 2-24 through 2-26. The engineer chain of command developed task lists using ARTEP 5-145-11- MTP to support mission essential task Conduct Obstacle Reduction (Breaching) Operations. Figure 2-20. Collective-to-soldier matrix extract. Figure 2-21. Sample common tasks. Figure 2-22. Sample soldier duty position tasks. Figure 2-22 (continued). Figure 2-23. Relationship of soldier and leader tasks to squad and platoon collective tasks and the company METL. Figure 2-24. Sample engineer platoon collective tasks. Figure 2-25. Sample engineer squad collective tasks. Figure 2-26. Sample engineer leader and soldier tasks http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (9 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development BATTLE STAFF The battle staff consists of the battalion staff and battalion slice (CS and CSS elements that are task- organized). Battalion staff and slice leaders develop mission essential tasks that support the battalion METL. They use the same process as the battalion and company commanders to develop their METL. Battle staff mission essential task lists are reviewed by the battalion executive officer and approved by the battalion commander. Figure 2-27. Sample battle staff METLs. The battalion commander must ensure that the battle staff METL integrates combined arms tasks which enable the battalion to fight as a combined arms team. As additional assets are task-organized, they must be integrated into the battle staff. The tasks of special staffs are incorporated into the battle staff's METLs; for example, the chaplain and medical officers' tasks with the S1's METL; the signal, chemical, and S3 air officers' tasks with the S3's METL; the motor and support platoon officers' tasks with the S4's METL. A sample list of battle staff mission essential task lists is found in Figure 2-27. BATTLE TASKS After approving the battle staff's and companies' METLs, the battalion commander selects from these METLS those tasks which the accomplishment of is critical to the success of each battalion mission essential task. These become the battalion's battle tasks. The selection of these battle tasks allows the battalion commander to focus on those tasks he wants to emphasize during training and evaluation. It also enables him to allocate scarce resources, such as ammunition, fuel, training areas, repair parts, and training aids, devices, simulators, and simulations (TADSS). Battalion is the lowest level that has battle tasks. After compiling all battle tasks for each TF mission essential task, the TF commander eliminates redundant battle tasks. For example, logistical operations, command and control, and NBC tasks relate to all mission essential tasks. Figure 2-28 illustrates the battle task selection process in which the higher commander selects his battle Figure 2-28. tasks from the subordinate unit's METL. BATTLEFIELD OPERATING SYSTEMS A tool that the TF commander may use to organize his battle tasks is the battlefield operating systems (BOS). The seven BOS are the major functions which occur on the battlefield. The BOS must be synchronized to ensure total combat power is coordinated and directed toward accomplishing the wartime mission. The BOS are a tool and provide a process to evaluate and assess performance. They may be used to identify http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (10 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development operational deficiencies and focus attention for training. All BOS are not equal in all operations, nor do they apply for all tasks. They also are not any end in themselves. Mission accomplishment and overall unit performance are what count. BOS are listed in sequence as they would appear in the five paragraph field order: ● Intelligence. ● Maneuver. ● Fire support. ● Mobility/countermobility/survivability. ● Air defense. ● Combat service support. ● Command and control (C2). SPECIALTY PLATOONS The collective tasks of the battalion's specialty platoons directly support the battalion METL. Specialty platoon tasks may be incorporated into the headquarters and headquarters company (HHC) METL. If specialty platoon tasks are in the HHC METL, they may be identified as battalion battle tasks. Commanders must therefore pay special attention to training specialty platoon collective tasks. For example, the success of the battalion's movement may depend on the scout platoon's ability to conduct a route reconnaissance. Additionally, the ability of the mortar platoon to rapidly bring indirect fires on a moving enemy formation may be key to the success of a battalion defense. EXAMPLE BATTLE TASKS Figure 2-29 shows the TF 1-77 commander's selection of battle tasks for the battalion mission essential task Assault. The TF commander chooses tasks from company and team METLs to support the battalion mission essential task Assault. He bases his selection on his knowledge of the battalion's mission and his concept of the operation, choosing those tasks he feels are most important to the battalion's success. These become the battalion battle tasks. Figure 2-29 also shows the relationship of soldier, leader, and collective tasks, and METL to the battalion task. CS and CSS battalion commanders have additional considerations which make selecting battle tasks extremely difficult. The METLs of their subordinate units must support their own battalion METL as well as the METLs of supported units. The subordinate companies could also have diverse missions within the http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (11 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development battalion (such as medical, maintenance, and supply companies within the FSB). Figure 2-29. TF 1-77 battle task selection and relationship to soldier, leader and collective tasks and METL. Figure 2-30 is an example of an engineer battalion commander's selection of battle tasks for the mission essential task Prepare Combined Arms Obstacle Plan. Figure 2-31 shows 1st FSB's selection of battle tasks for the mission essential task Conduct Logistical Operations. Figure 2-30. Engineer battalion battle task selection. Figure 2-31. 1st FSB battle task selection. TRAINING OBJECTIVES After identifying battalion and company METLs, supporting platoon and squad collective tasks, and supporting soldier and leader tasks, leaders establish supporting conditions and standards for each task. The resulting training objective describes the desired outcome of a training activity. Local conditions vary. Commanders must therefore modify conditions statements to fit their training environments and assessments of their units' level of proficiency. The goal is to create as realistic and demanding a training environment as possible with the resources available. To adapt a conditions statement, the commander should take the following steps: ● Read the existing MTP or SM statement. (It is deliberately general because a more specific conditions statement may not apply to all units.) ● Read the applicable references with suggested support requirements and identify the resources needed to train the task. ● Consider the local situation--ammunition available, OPFOR, time, terrain, ranges, TADSS, and weather conditions. ● Prepare a revised conditions statement. Conditions prescribed should be realistic and practical. If conditions are considerably different from those stated in the MTP, the commander must consider whether the standards can be met or should be modified. Regardless, the conditions should be adjusted so that the standards remain appropriate to the task. The conditions statement will include comments on one or more of the following: ● Status and capability of threat forces. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (12 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development ● Equipment, material, tools, or other resources allocated for use in performing the task. ● References, checklists, and other memory aids for use during actual task performance. ● Physical or environmental conditions; for example, darkness, dense tropical forests, cold weather, or NBC conditions. ● Assistance available during performance of the task. ● Time allocated for task performance. ● Restrictions or limitations. The standards for most tasks may be found in applicable MTPs and SMs. These standards for task performance are the minimum Army standards. For tasks without published training objectives, the following documents will assist in their development: ● DA Pamphlet 350-38. ● Deployment or mobilization plans. ● General defense plans. ● Army, major Army command (MACOM), and local regulations. ● Local standing operating procedures (SOPs). ● Equipment TMs and FMs. CS and CSS unit commanders should structure daily operations so they replicate how business will be conducted during war. For example, a counterintelligence team from the military intelligence (MI) battalion supports the brigade's operational security (OPSEC) program in garrison through OPSEC awareness and vulnerability assessments; the FSB will routinely have the maintenance support teams from the maintenance company operate with supported unit's organic maintenance personnel. The following training objectives are examples for battalion-through-soldier level which support the TF 1-77 mission Defend (Figures 2-32 through 2-36). Figures 2-37 and 2-38 show training objectives for 1st FSB and Company A, 52d Engineer Battalion. Figure 2-32. Example TF 1-77 training objective. Figure 2-33. Example Team A training objective. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (13 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 2 Mission Essential Task List (Metl) Development Figure 2-34. Example tank platoon training objective. Figure 2-35. Example crew training objective. Figure 2-36. Example soldier training objective. Figure 2-37. Example 1st FSB training objective. Figure 2-38. The METL with supporting soldier, leader, and unit collective tasks provides the foundation for the training plan. The battalion and company commanders in concert with the CSM, first sergeants, and subordinate leaders are now ready to plan their units' training. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_3.htm (14 of 14) [1/11/2002 3:16:59 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions CHAPTER 3 PLANNING Training in all its phases must be intensive . . . It must be intelligently directed so that every individual [soldier] including the last private in the ranks, can understand the reasons for the exertions he is called upon to make. General Dwight D. Eisenhower This chapter addresses how leaders plan training based upon the assessment. Figure 3-1 expands the training planning process illustrated in the training management cycle. The phases will be discussed in detail as follows: ● Long-range planning, which results in the battalion commander's long range calendar. ● Short-range planning, which results in the battalion commander's-- --Quarterly training guidance (AC) or yearly training guidance (RC). --Quarterly training calendar (AC) or yearly training calendar (RC). --Quarterly training briefing (AC) or yearly training briefing (RC). --Near-term planning which results in publication of weekly (AC) or monthly (RC) training schedules. Figure 3-1. Training planning process. Planning links the unit METL and the execution of battle focused training. It is a centralized process that aligns training priorities with wartime requirements at all levels within the unit. Although there are other training requirements, battle focus allows the leader to narrow his scope of planning to wartime mission essential tasks. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (1 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning ASSESSMENT The assessment begins the training planning process. Commanders use their subordinates, key staff members, and NCO leaders to assess the training level on mission essential tasks. Commanders rely on subordinate leaders' feedback to determine their units' training proficiency level. They analyze all available training evaluations, such as ARTEP external evaluations, combat training centers (CTC) take home packages, and annual training reports. Commanders use these evaluations, personal observation, and other feedback to identify the subtasks for each mission essential task which require further training. In-depth assessment determines a strategy to improve training proficiency on specific weaknesses and plan sustainment training on demonstrated strengths. Assessment links the evaluation of training executed to the planning of upcoming training. LONG-RANGE PLANNING At battalion level, long-range planning starts with unit assessment and is the basis for the long range training calendar. Resources, such as major training areas, ammunition, and fuel, are allocated and shortfalls, identified. The long-range plan synchronizes supporting units and agencies so that training events can be properly executed (Figure 3-2). UNIT ASSESSMENT Long-range planning is based on unit assessment. This assessment identifies training strengths and weaknesses, allowing the commander to plan training which sustains unit strengths and improves weaknesses. Unit assessment is made by the commander. It is based on his firsthand observations and input from all leaders (officer and NCO). It is the base upon which a training strategy is developed. Unit assessment is-- ● Developed using evaluations, reports, leader books, or records. ● A continuous process; however, formal assessment is normally only conducted at the start of planning phases and after major training events. ● Used to set or update unit goals and objectives. ● Influenced by future events; for example, personnel turnover, new equipment fielding, or force structure changes. Training strategy is a concept used to attain desired levels of training proficiency on mission essential tasks. The commander's strategy is based on his assessment of his unit and higher headquarters' command training guidance (CTG). It determines training events and activities to improve or sustain proficiency on each mission essential task. This training strategy supports unit goals and objectives that provide a common direction for the unit's training program. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (2 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning Figure 3-2. The commander's training strategy is continuously refined throughout the planning process. Training strategies-- ● Ensure training is focused on METL and subordinate leader development. ● Ensure combined arms is incorporated in all training. ● Determine who, what, when, and where to train. ● Determine the logical sequence to execute the training. ● Determine types of training exercises to be used (see Appendix C). For example, commanders with an inexperienced battle staff plan more map exercises (MAPEXs), fire coordination exercises (FCXs), and command post exercises (CPXs). The command field exercise (CFX) is excellent for training leaders and staffs with complete command, control, communications, and logistical systems. ● Determine frequencies for a given task; for example, train Movement to Contact quarterly during FTXs and Set Up the Tactical Operations Center (TOC) once a month. ● Coordinate all training events. CS and CSS commanders must consider unlike units and physical dispersion. ● Match the available resources to the training requirements. ● Result in commander's training guidance. These elements of training strategy apply to both Active and Reserve Component units. The RC, in many instances, is required to conduct additional coordination between their wartime and peacetime chains of command. For example, a transportation battalion and an airborne MI company may report through a support group to a US Army Reserve Command (ARCOM) headquarters in peacetime. Yet they are aligned with two different wartime chains of command. With limited time to train, RC commanders must sequence training of METL tasks throughout the long-range training cycle. Appendix C discusses training exercises that maximize planning time. COMMANDER'S GUIDANCE Senior commanders publish long-range planning calendars and CTG to give battalion and subordinate commanders adequate time to properly plan training (Figures 3-3 and 3-4). Senior commanders provide resources and protect training from distracters. Figure 3-3. Active Component. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (3 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning Figure 3-4. Reserve Component. Division commanders often provide suggested frequency for training events and other activities. Figure 3-5 is an example of an AC division commander's guidance matrix. It can be used as a tool to conduct long-range planning. RC commanders could develop a similar matrix based on training requirements and higher headquarters requirements. Figure 3-5. Weekly NCO training time is included on the example matrix. Some training time during the week should be devoted to the small-unit leader (such as a squad leader or a vehicle commander) to train his unit. This enhances readiness and cohesion; it also allows the junior NCO to learn and exercise the Army's training management system at the lowest level. The key is to train the trainer so that he can train his soldiers. This requires the NCO to identify essential soldier and small-unit and team tasks (drills) that support unit METL and then-- ● To assess strengths and weaknesses. ● To formulate a plan to correct deficiencies and sustain strengths. ● To execute the training to standard. TIME MANAGEMENT Commanders organize training time during long-range planning using time management systems. Time management systems are designed to protect training time for subordinate units. Various types of time management systems are used throughout the Army. Some systems consist of three cycles: units involved in prime time training, units on alert status, and units providing support. Other systems have two cycles: prime time training, and support. The two-cycle system is better suited for the majority of CS and CSS units. Slice units' time management systems should be aligned with the supported maneuver unit. Regardless of the system, its purpose is to provide uninterrupted training time to subordinate commanders. Taskers from higher headquarters or the installation are managed to protect units in a training cycle. Units being fenced from outside support taskings thus have the time to train collective tasks and to conduct internally directed training exercises. After a period of time, determined by the commander, units that have been fenced from support taskers become the supporting units; units that have been receiving the support taskings are provided uninterrupted time to train. Time management is especially important in the RC. RC commanders use a time management system to ensure the maximum amount of time is devoted to training essential soldier, leader, and collective tasks. The peacetime chain of command must assist subordinate commanders by consolidating scheduled training distracters, such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) testing, panographic x-rays, or inspections, during one or two IDT periods during the year. This impacts least on training. One way to implement a time management system during IDT is to schedule activities in two- or four-hour http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (4 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning blocks concurrently or sequentially on one day. Each squad or platoon is scheduled during a block to accomplish the requirement. The remainder of the unit is conducting training on mission-oriented tasks. RC commanders should provide higher headquarters preferred annual dates to conduct externally directed administrative requirements to minimize impact upon training. Commanders at all levels can use time management systems. A battalion commander whose unit is in the support period can still provide training time for subordinates. He may direct that during the first week of the support period, Charlie Company will not receive support taskers until Alpha and Bravo Companies have been tasked to the limit of their support capability. During the next week, Bravo Company is the last company to be tasked. The last company to be tasked for support normally will have some time when the other companies are handling all taskers. This provides an opportunity to train soldier and small-unit collective tasks although the battalion is in a support cycle. By managing in this manner, the commander has developed and implemented a time management system. Figure 3-6 lists the characteristics of a three-cycle system known as Green-Amber- Red. There are training opportunities during every period of the time management system. Specific periods lend themselves to certain types of events. The following shows training events conducted during the Green-Amber- Red time management system: ● Post support--red. ● Gunnery--green. ● FTX--green. ● Holiday half-day--red. ● Weapons qualification--amber. ● Combined arms live fire exercise (CALFEX)--green. ● National training center (NTC)--green. Figure 3-6. Green-Amber-Red Time Management System. PLANNING CALENDARS Battalion commanders publish their long range guidance in the form of long-range planning calendars. They follow the timeliness in Figures 3-3 and 3-4. Although written training guidance is not required, it may be used to emphasize key training events or higher headquarters' training guidance. Subordinate leaders provide input to the battalion long-range planning calendar. The battalion long-range planning calendar is a graphic depiction of upcoming training. It provides direction and coordinates resource requirements. Supporting and supported units should exchange planning calendars to http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (5 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning enhance coordination. The Standard Army Training System (SATS) is designed to assist in formatting and producing planning calendars. The following four steps are suggested for preparing the long-range planning calendar. The example depicts only the second quarter of the long-range planning calendar. AC and RC units should modify the four steps to fit the needs of the command. RC units must post AT and IDT dates first. Step 1. Post the time management system. Posting the time management system first highlights prime-time training periods available to the unit, and support periods. Commanders then focus their resource and exercise planning to take advantage of prime-time training. NOTE: Holiday periods to include host nation holidays must be posted. Step 2. Post required training events on the calendar. These are requirements that are directed by higher headquarters. These events provide excellent training opportunities for the battalion commander and subordinate leaders. They must take full advantage of these events to select training objectives to be accomplished. The dates of these events should be annotated. If exact dates are unknown, block window periods. Examples of required training events are-- ● MAPEX, TEWT, CPX, CFX, FCX, and FTX. ● CTC training rotations. ● External evaluations. ● Gunnery periods. ● Security reaction force duty. ● Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) support. ● OPFOR support and training. ● RC support (for AC units). Step 3. Schedule other requirements. Identify other requirements that impact on training. Reduce training distracters by properly identifying required events early in the planning process. Some examples are-- ● Announced inspections, such as technical validation inspections (TVIs), nuclear surety inspections (NSIs), and command inspection program (CIP) inspections. ● New equipment fielding to include new equipment training (NET). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (6 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning ● Community and installation support events; for example, parades and displays. ● Directed administrative requirements (RC), such as panographic x-rays and HIV screening. Step 4. Schedule unit-controlled exercises and other training. On the basis of his strategy, the commander schedules events which will improve or sustain METL proficiency in conjunction with higher headquarters' directed training requirements. For example, the battalion commander could schedule a TEWT, a CPX, an FCX, and STXs prior to a brigade FTX. The long-range planning calendar is staffed with outside agencies that can impact on training. It is coordinated with subordinate and higher commanders, installation commanders, and supporting slice units. This ensures that supporting slice units and activities are prepared to support the battalion's training plan. Timely coordination will assist in the training integration of the battalion slice. SHORT-RANGE PLANNING Short-range planning refines the long-range calendar (Figure 3-7) . It defines in greater detail the broad guidance on training events and other activities in the long-range planning calendar and CTG (see Appendix A). It begins with the commander's training assessment and results in-- ● Quarterly training guidance (QTG) for AC and yearly training guidance (YTG) for RC. ● Quarterly training calendar (QTC) for AC and yearly training calendar (YTC) for RC. ● Quarterly training briefing (QTB) for AC and yearly training briefing (YTB) for RC. TRAINING ASSESSMENT Short-range planning is based on the long range unit assessment and on a detailed training assessment of the unit's current METL proficiency. It focuses on training deficiencies which impact on the unit's ability to perform its wartime mission. A training assessment is-- ● Required for each METL task, platoon and squad collective task, soldier task, and, at battalion and higher headquarters, each battle task. ● A snapshot of the unit's current soldier, leader, and collective task proficiency. ● A comparison of task proficiency with Army standards. ● Based on a review of training evaluations; for example, annual training evaluations, CTC take-home packages, and CTC lessons learned (Appendix D). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (7 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning ● Used to determine QTG or YTG. Step 1. Post the time management system. Posting the time management system first highlights prime-time training periods available to the unit, and support periods. Commanders then focus their resource and exercise planning to take advantage of prime time training. NOTE: Holiday periods to include host nation holidays must be posted. Figure 3-34. Step 1. Step 2. Post required training events on the calendar. These are requirements that are directed by higher headquarters. These events provide excellent training opportunities for the battalion commander and subordinate leaders. They must take full advantage of these events to select training objectives to be accomplished. The dates of these events should be annotated. If exact dates are unknown, block window periods. ● MAPEX, TEWT, CPX, CFX, FCX, and FTX. ● CTC training rotations. ● External evaluations. ● Gunnery periods. ● Security reaction force duty. ● Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) support. ● OPFOR support and training. ● RC support (for AC units). Figure 3-35. Step 2. Step 3. Schedule other requirements. Identify other requirements that impact on training. Reduce training distracters by properly identifying required events early in the planning process. Some examples are-- ● Announced inspections, such as technical validation inspections (TVIs), nuclear surety inspections (NSIs), and command inspection program (CIP) inspections. ● New equipment fielding to include new equipment training (NET). ● Community and installation support events; for example, parades and displays. ● Directed administrative requirements (RC), such as panographic x-rays and HIV screening. Figure 3-36. Step 4. Schedule unit-controlled exercises and other training. On the basis of his strategy, the commander schedules events which will improve or sustain METL proficiency in conjunction with higher headquarters' directed-training requirements. For example, the battalion commander could schedule a TEWT, a CPX, and http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (8 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning FCX, and STXs prior to a brigade FTX. The long-range planning calendar is staffed with outside agencies that can impact on training. It is coordinated with subordinate and higher commanders, installation commanders, and supporting slice units. This ensures that supporting slice units and activities are prepared to support the battalion's training plan. Timely coordination will assist in the training integration of the battalion slice. Figure 3-37. Step 4. Figure 3-7. The CSM, 1SGs, PSGs, squad leaders, and other key NCOs provide input on section, squad, crew, and soldier proficiency on essential soldier tasks for the commander's assessment. Likewise, all leaders provide input to the commander's assessment of leader proficiency. They provide planning recommendations on integrating selected essential leader and soldier tasks into collective mission essential tasks. NCOs may use a leader book (discussed in Appendix B) and battle rosters to assess section, squad, crew and soldier tasks. Battle rosters provide a way to record key systems crew data. Figures 3-8 , 3-9, 3-10, and 3-11 illustrate sample formats that may be used. Specific information and format for battle rosters depend on the unit's mission requirements. Battle rosters-- ● May be maintained formally or informally. ● Are maintained at battalion level and below. ● Track key weapon and support systems, such as tanks, attack helicopters, howitzers, radars, trucks, and tube launched, optically tracked, wire-guided (TOW) missiles. ● Track crew data; for example, stability, manning levels, and qualification status. ● Designate qualified back-up crew members. ● Identify soldiers to enable them to train as a designated crew. The commander's assessment of training proficiency on METL tasks is rated as either "T" (trained), "P" (needs practice), or "U" (untrained): ● "T" (trained) means that the unit can successfully perform the task to standard. Only sustainment training is needed. The leader judges task performance to be free of significant shortcomings. Practice on "T" tasks is designed to keep soldiers from losing proficiency. ● "P" (needs practice) means that the unit can perform the task with some shortcomings. The shortcomings are not severe enough to require complete retraining. Only refresher training is required. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (9 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning ● "U" (untrained) means that the unit cannot perform the task to standard. The leader prepares a comprehensive strategy to train all supporting tasks not executed to standard. Figure 3-8. Combat arms battle roster. Figure 3-9. Continued. Figure 3-10. Continued 2. Figure 3-11. Continued 3. Commanders may use SATS (when available) or locally developed worksheets to record their training assessment. One method is to use the BOS as a guide. Those BOS that do not apply to the task would be left blank on the worksheet. (Sample extracts for Task Force 1-77 and Team A are at Figures 3-12 and 3-13. Extracts for the 52d Engineer Battalion and the 1st Forward Support Battalion are at Figures 3-14 and 3-15). Figure 3-12. Extract from TF 1-77 commander's training assessment. Figure 3-13. Extract from Team A. Figure 3-14. Extract from 52d Engineer. Figure 3-15. Extract from 1st FSB commander's training assessment. Figure 3-16. Extract Commanders Assessment by subunit of METL task Defend. Figure 3-16 is a sample of the commander's assessment by subordinate units of the mission essential task Defend. The TF 1-77 commander assessed it as "P" in Figure 3-12 using the BOS. Battle tasks or supporting tasks are recorded down the left side; subunit assessment, across the top; and specific deficiencies, in the right column. This in-depth commander's assessment recognizes that a deficiency in one company may not be a deficiency in another company. It allows the commander to tailor his training to specific subordinate unit weaknesses and develop an effective training plan to correct them. RISK ASSESSMENT Risk assessment is the thought process of making operations safer without compromising the mission. Commanders must continuously perform a risk assessment of conditions under which training is conducted to prevent the unnecessary loss of soldiers and equipment. The degree of risk varies with the conditions at the time of training. For example, have the soldiers done the training before? Will the training be done for the first time at night? Are the soldiers fatigued? In reality, risk management is smart decision making. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (10 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning Training must be tough, realistic, and safe. Commanders must consider the following points as they integrate risk assessment into their training: ● Accept no unnecessary risks. ● Make risk decisions at the proper level. ● Accept risks if mission benefits outweigh the costs. It is important to remember that the commander is the safety officer, but all soldiers and leaders are responsible for safe training. All leaders must-- ● Identify the risks using METT-T factors. ● Assess possible loss, cost, and probability. ● Make decisions and develop controls to reduce risks. ● Implement controls by integrating them into plans, orders, SOPs, training performance standards, and rehearsals. ● Supervise and enforce at all times safety controls and standards. COMMANDER'S GUIDANCE Commander's guidance is his written expression of training strategy that conveys the battalion commander's training objectives and priorities and highlights training events. The commander's training strategy provides the detail from which training schedules can be developed. It also lays out the sequence of training to be accomplished and includes the who, what, when, and where to train. See Appendix A for an example battalion QTG. Commanders at separate company level and above publish the QTG and YTG to allow sufficient time for subordinate commanders to conduct near-term planning (Figures 3-17 and 3-18). Subordinate leaders provide planning recommendations for inclusion in the commander's written guidance. Topics normally addressed in the QTG and YTG are-- ● Commander's training assessment of METL proficiency. ● Training priorities based on assessment. ● Integration of slice training. (Train as you fight.) ● Impact of time management systems on scheduled training. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (11 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning ● Integration of soldier, leader, and collective training (multiechelon training). ● Allocation of resources. ● Impact of new equipment and NET. ● Evaluations, inspections, and feedback. ● Integration of maintenance training. (Train to maintain.) ● Trainer preparation time (pre-execution checks to ensure safe and realistic training). (Train the trainer.) ● Designation of units which will portray the OPFOR during planned exercises. Figure 3-17. AC short-range planning cycle. Figure 3-18. RC commanders may publish YTG in the form of a training circular or a memorandum. When different type subordinate units are involved YTG may focus on mandatory requirements; for example, IDT dates, AT dates, weapons qualification, HIV testing, or records review. The battalion commander allocates training time by matching METL tasks with programmed events. For example, the TF commander plans a TF TEWT and company team MAPEX to take full advantage of the scheduled brigade CPX prior to the TF FTX (Figure 3-19). This planning process provides a structure for improving and sustaining proficiency on mission essential soldier, leader, and collective tasks. Leaders must emphasize sustainment after the task has been performed to standard. They must allocate sufficient time to retrain and repeat critical tasks often enough to sustain proficiency. MULTIECHELON TRAINING Commanders provide guidance on the use of multiechelon training to plan and refine training events. Multiechelon training maximizes training opportunities at the decisive time and place. Multiechelon training must occur during all collective training. Specific tasks for soldiers and leaders must be planned and evaluated at each echelon. The battalion commander determines which tasks the battalion will train based on his assessment of proficiency. Each subordinate leader conducts a similar assessment and determines soldier, leader, and collective tasks to be trained. Generally, tasks selected for training by subordinate leaders support the training objectives of the commander directing the event. Lane training is an excellent way to execute multiechelon training using external support and evaluation. It enables a unit to train repetitively to standard with a tough, competent OPFOR employing appropriate MILES and OCs. However, lane training is resource-intensive, to include ammunition, pyrotechnics, OPFOR, training areas, TADSS (Appendix E), MILES-related equipment, support unit assets, and evaluators. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (12 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning Regardless of the echelon which directs a training event, all subordinate leaders must view it as a training opportunity. Commanders determine which METL tasks they can train within the conduct of the higher unit's training event. Samples of multiechelon events are Figures 3-20, 3-21, and 3-22. Figure 3-19. Planning Matrix. Figure 3-20. Sample signal battalion multiechelon exercise. Figure 3-21. Sample supply and service multiechelon exercise. Figure 3-22. Sample task force multiechelon exercise. PLANNING CALENDARS Short-range planning calendars are published along with the QTG and YTG, graphically depicting the schedule of events. Calendars should be posted where soldiers can see them. Figure 3-23 is a sample AC signal battalion QTC in the SATS format. Figure 3-24 is a sample RC main support battalion YTC. Although company commanders are not required to prepare short range planning calendars, they may do so to use as a management tool. Figure 3-23. Sample Active Component QTC. Figure 3-24. Sample Reserve Componet YTC. QUARTERLY AND YEARLY TRAINING BRIEFING AC commanders brief the QTB to the commanders two levels above. Battalion commanders brief the division commander and company commanders brief the brigade commander. Battalion commanders in separate brigades and regiments present the QTB to corps major subordinate commanders. The YTB for RC units is normally presented to the next higher peacetime commander. Separate RC battalion commanders and company commanders may also brief the next higher wartime commander. Some RC units may not be able to conduct in- person briefings. In those cases, commanders must use other means such as messages or mail. The briefings are designed to discuss past, present, and future training expectations. They result in a training contract or agreement between the senior and subordinate commander. This contract or agreement consists of two parts. First, upon his approval of the subordinate's plan, the senior commander agrees to provide resources and protect the subordinate unit from unprogrammed training distracters. Second, the subordinate commander agrees to execute the approved training to standard. The QTB is conducted prior to the lock-in window (ideally about six weeks before execution of next quarter's training in AC units) after drafting the QTG and QTC. The YTB is conducted prior to the start of the fiscal year in RC units, following drafting of the YTG and YTC. After approval by the next-higher commander, the training guidance and calendar are published. The following topics as a minimum should be briefed: http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (13 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning ● Unit's METL assessment. ● Training assessment (to include assessment of slice elements). ● Training briefed, but not conducted, from last QTB or YTB. ● Commander's strategy to train METL tasks. ● Next quarter's or year's training. ● Assessment of soldier and leader training. ● Linkage of soldier, leader, and collective task training. ● Resource management and restrictions. ● Long-range training update. ● Lessons learned. The CSM and 1SG normally brief after their commander. They provide an analysis of the unit's soldier training proficiency and discuss the unit's proposed soldier training and education plans. Special emphasis must be placed on low-density MOSs. Areas of discussion should include-- ● An assessment of the unit's battle focused soldier and leader training program. ● Soldier training proficiency feedback received during the previous short-range planning period. ● A description of METL-derived soldier tasks to be emphasized during the upcoming period (such as marksmanship program). ● A description of soldier and collective tasks linkages. ● The unit's education, Army Physical Fitness Test (APFT), and overweight programs. The senior commander determines the format and content of the briefing. (See Appendix F for sample.) However, the format should be flexible enough to allow subordinate commanders, CSMs, and 1SGs to highlight their strengths, weaknesses, initiatives, and priorities. The division and brigade commanders must ensure that the slice leaders attend the battalion QTB to integrate training plans. Participants could include division staff, DISCOM, FSB commanders, division artillery (DIVARTY), direct support (DS) field artillery commanders, DS intelligence commander, and separate battalion commanders. The battalion commander ensures that the following prepare, attend, and participate in the http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (14 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning briefing: ● Battalion CSM. ● All subordinate company commanders and their 1SGs. ● Battalion staff (executive officer, S1, S2, S3, S4, battalion maintenance officer (BMO), signal officer, and chaplain, or their respective NCO counterparts). ● Specialty platoon leaders (mortar, scouts, medical, signal, and support). ● Slice leaders (engineer, air defense (AD), FSO, MI GSR, and ALO). ● Others as deemed appropriate by the commander. The company commander ensures that the 1SG, platoon leaders, and platoon sergeants attend the company training briefing. He also coordinates with battalion to ensure his habitually associated slice leaders attend. This may be difficult for RC units. The QTB or YTB highlights the senior commander's leader development program. Subordinate commanders and leaders can then see how their METL and training plans fit into the battle focused training programs of their senior commanders and peers. The briefing creates confidence throughout the command by ensuring that leaders at all levels understand the intent of their senior commanders. Commanders can then make effective, independent training decisions to meet that intent as they execute the approved training plan. This level of mutual understanding can only be developed through close and professional interaction. Battalion and company commanders use the briefing as a training management review process. The briefing helps the unit-- ● Review training strategy, training events, strengths, and weaknesses. ● Discuss previously coordinated training events and associated activities. ● Explain how the unit's training program will help the unit to attain the higher commander's goals and objectives. ● Highlight problem areas for discussion. ● Clarify command responsibilities for allocating resources. (Additionally, senior commanders recommend ways to more efficiently use available resources.) ● Eliminate training distracters. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (15 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning The commanders' contract or agreement locks in resources to enable battalion and subordinate commanders to begin near-term planning. NEAR-TERM PLANNING Near-term planning defines specific actions required to execute the short-range plan. It is the final phase of planning prior to the execution of training. In near-term planning, commanders-- ● Conduct training meetings to coordinate and finalize all training events, activities, and resources. ● Provide specific guidance to trainers and OCs. ● Prepare OPFOR plan and training objectives. ● Prepare T&EOs. ● Ensure slice units have been integrated into the unit's training. ● Determine time for pre-execution checks. ● Prepare detailed training schedules. Near-term planning covers a six-to eight week period prior to the execution of training for AC units (Figure 3- 25), and a four-month period prior to execution of training for RC units (Figure 3-26). Figure 3-25. AC near-term planning cycle. Figure 3-26. RC near-term planning cycle. TRAINING MEETINGS Training meetings are non-negotiable at battalion and company level. They will be held. Training meetings provide guidance for forming training schedules. The payoff for well-structured, well-organized, and recurring training meetings is training that is exciting and demanding and is directly related to the unit's mission. Figure 3-27 lists important points about training meetings. The primary focus of training meetings at battalion level is training management issues for the next six weeks. Coordination meetings should be held to resolve resource issues prior to the battalion training meeting. At company level, training meetings focus on the specifics of training to be conducted. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (16 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning Meetings are also held at platoon and squad level. Essential soldier, leader, and collective training needs must be identified and sent up the chain of command. Likewise, information passed out at the company training meeting must reach every soldier through the platoon chain of command. The training schedule provides this detailed information. Suggested Participants This section recommends participants for battalion and company training meetings. At battalion level, participants may include-- ● Battalion commander. ● Command sergeant major. ● Battalion executive officer. ● Company commanders and first sergeants. ● Specialty platoon leaders (medical, support, scouts, mortar, signal as required). ● Slice leaders (FSO, engineer, AD, GSR, and MST). ● Operations officer from the FSB or main support battalion (MSB); ● Battalion staff (S1, S2, S3, and S4). ● Special staff (chaplain, chemical officer, BMO, and physician's assistant). ● Battalion operations sergeant. Figure 3-27. Points about training meetings. When appropriate, RC commanders may want to include participants from the readiness group and AC partnership unit. When geographical dispersion precludes the company attending battalion training meetings, essential training information must be exchanged. Units should consider mail or other means to exchange critical information. At company level, participants include the following: ● Company commander. ● First sergeant. ● Executive officer. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (17 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning ● Platoon leaders and platoon sergeants. ● Supply sergeant. ● NBC NCO or specialist. ● Motor sergeant (as applicable). ● Slice team leaders (medical, FIST, engineer, and others, as applicable). ● Other key leaders who are designated by the commander. Suggested Agenda Training meetings at each echelon review past training. Further, they refine and plan training for the next six weeks. At battalion level, the following agenda may be used: ● Review of QTC or YTC. ● Past training (briefed by company commanders), to include-- --Assess training conducted since the last meeting. --Review reasons for training planned, but not conducted. --Update the current status of training proficiency. ● Near-term training, to include-- --Discuss new guidance received from higher commanders. --Lock in training scheduled for next four to six weeks (next three months for RC). --Review and complete pre-execution checks (document training distracters from higher headquarters). --Issue commander's guidance for training scheduled six to eight weeks out (four months out for RC). --Review preparations for multiechelon training. --Review the short-range plan. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (18 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning --Review projected resources. At company training meetings, the agenda may be as follows: ● Past training (briefed by platoon leaders and sergeants), to include-- --Assess training conducted since the last meeting (collective and soldier tasks). --Review reasons for training planned, but not conducted. --Determine the current status of training proficiency. ● Near-term training, to include-- --Apply new guidelines from higher commanders, especially new or unscheduled requirements. --Review pre-execution checks for training scheduled for next four to six weeks (next three months for RC). --Ensure platoon leader and sergeant recommendations are included in training scheduled six to eight weeks out (four months out for RC). --Identify and prepare opportunity training. --Identify key soldier changes and resource needs. Figure 3-28 depicts an example agenda and discussion from a company training meeting. TRAINING SCHEDULES Near-term planning conducted at the training meeting results in detailed training schedules. The training schedule is the unit's primary management tool to ensure training is conducted on time and by qualified trainers with the necessary resources. Draft training schedules and pre-execution checks must be initiated at least six to eight weeks (four months for RC) prior to the training. This ensures resources are coordinated and external support is requested. For AC, training schedules are published four to six weeks prior to execution; for RC, three months prior. Pre-execution checks and execution of training may be more difficult for the RC than for the AC. Geographical dispersion, remoteness from support installations, and lack of facilities and TADSS demand extra effort to accomplish training. For example, RC units may travel four hours from Kansas City, KS, to Fort Riley, KS, to use qualification ranges. Or trainers may travel two hours from Charleston, SC, to Fort Jackson, SC, to obtain TADSS for a weekend drill. Once the battalion commander approves and the company commander signs the training schedule, it is locked in http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (19 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning and constitutes an official order. It can only be changed by the approving authority; for example, for the company, it is normally the battalion commander. Higher headquarters must then protect units from unprogrammed events, activities, and other distracters. Leaders must ensure daily training is conducted to standard and adheres to the training schedule. CSMs and 1SGs are key to making this happen. Soldiers have a legal responsibility to attend scheduled training. Commanders establish procedures to minimize changes to the training schedules. Responsibilities of commanders are normally established as follows: ● Subordinate leaders recommend the sequence of training and allocation of time, resources, and TTP during the company training meeting. The company commander drafts the training schedule based on this input. ● The battalion commander approves the training schedule and the company commander signs it. The battalion commander provides necessary administrative support for publishing. Figure 3-28. Sample training meeting agenda. ● The brigade commander normally reviews each training schedule published in his command and visits selected training. ● The division commander reviews selected training highlights prepared by the division staff. These provide information on scheduled training that he may decide to visit and assess. SATS provides commanders an excellent standardized format for training schedules. For those units which do not have SATS, the format should remain the same. Training schedules should specify-- ● The day and time training starts and ends. (The correct amount of time must be allocated for scheduled training and additional training required to correct deficiencies.) ● Soldiers to be trained (specific enough to ensure each soldier knows where he is to be). ● Subject to be trained (soldier, leader, and collective tasks). ● Location of training (range, grid location, or MTA). ● Trainers, by name (primary and assistant). ● Training references (for example, FM 22-5, ARTEP 71-2-MTP, to include chapter and task number, page and paragraph number, if applicable). ● Uniform and equipment required. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (20 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning ● Comments and remarks concerning uniform, weapons, equipment, references, and safety precautions. Opportunity training topics should also be added. Figure 3-29 provides suggested weekly steps for AC company training schedule development. The RC process involves the same steps spread over a four-month period. Units designated as OPFOR will also use the same process to prepare their soldiers and leaders to portray a doctrinally correct threat. Near-term planning culminates when the unit executes the training planned on the training schedule. Sample training schedules for AC and RC companies are at Figure 3-30 and Figure 3-31. Figure 3-29. Training schedule development. Figure 3-30. Sample AC weekly training schedule-infantry company. Figure 3-31. Sample RC monthly training schedule. Figure 3-31 (continued). PRE-EXECUTION CHECKS Pre-execution checks are the informal planning and coordination conducted prior to training execution. They are developed to systematically prepare soldiers, trainers, and resources to ensure training execution starts properly. These checks are developed and responsibility for them fixed during the short-range planning phase. They become increasingly detailed during the near-term phase. Pre-execution checks provide the attention to detail needed to use resources efficiently. Figure 3-32 shows a sample pre-execution checklist. Figure 3-32. Sample pre-execution checks. PREPARATION FOR TRAINING Formal planning for training culminates with the publication of the training schedule. Informal planning and detailed coordination (preexecution checks) continue until the training is performed. To conduct effective, meaningful training for soldiers, leaders, and units, thorough preparation is essential. Well- prepared trainers, soldiers, and support personnel are ready to participate and their facilities, equipment, and materials are ready to use. Proper preparation gives trainers confidence in their ability to train. They must rehearse their preparations and review the tasks and subtasks to be covered during their training. To prepare trainers to conduct performance- oriented training, commanders and leaders must-- ● Provide training guidance, resources, and references. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (21 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning ● Provide preparation time so that the trainer can-- --Review references, such as ARTEP 71-2-MTP, soldier's manuals, FMs, and TMs to understand tasks, conditions, and standards. --Prepare a T&EO. --Gather and prepare training support items, equipment, and supplies such as MILES equipment, other TADSS, and Class III and IX items. --Conduct a reconnaissance of training site. --Prepare the soldiers for training. ● Schedule rehearsals for the trainer. ● Conduct rehearsals to-- --Identify weak points in the training plan. --Teach effective training techniques. --Coach the trainer until he feels comfortable. --Ensure all safety and environmental considerations are met. --Ask pertinent questions to determine if the leader is technically and tactically proficient. --Determine how the trainer will evaluate the soldiers' or unit's performance at the end of training for compliance with the training objective. Have the trainer demonstrate the evaluation procedure, if appropriate. --Assess subordinate trainer competencies and provide developmental feedback to them throughout the training preparation and execution process. --Give them confidence in their ability to train. ● Prepare T&EO to-- --Guide soldier, leader, and collective training. --Provide summary information on training objectives (soldier, leader, and unit) which support mission essential tasks. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (22 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 3 Planning --Provide information on resource requirements. --Provide generic conditions. Leaders must adjust to METT-T. Leaders use MTPs, MQS manuals, soldier'smanuals, drill books, and similar publications to develop the T&EO. Whenever possible, they use the published T&EO. An example T&EO from ARTEP 71-2-MTP is at Figure 3- 33. To conduct effective, meaningful training for soldiers, leaders, and units, thorough preparation is essential. Leaders themselves must be able to perform the task before trying to teach others. Proper preparation gives them confidence in their ability to train. After proper planning and preparation are complete, soldiers, leaders, and units are ready to execute training to standard. Figure 3-33. Example battalion task force T&EO. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_4.htm (23 of 23) [1/11/2002 3:17:05 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions CHAPTER 4 EXECUTION In no other profession are the penalties for employing untrained personnel so appalling or so irrevocable as in the military. General Douglas MacArthur Training is the peacetime mission of the Army. The execution of training to standard is the payoff for all other phases of training management. Training proficiency assessments, METL development, and detailed planning are important, but ineffective if we fail to execute scheduled training to standard. Leader supervision and participation at all levels are essential to the successful execution of training. Battle focused leaders ensure that planned training is started on time and executed vigorously to standard. Leaders assess subordinate soldier, leader, and unit performance throughout the execution phase. They provide feedback to allow subordinates to learn from their strengths and weaknesses and to subsequently adjust their own training programs. Execution of training is decentralized to tailor soldier, leader, and unit training requirements to the available resources. These training needs are identified through the bottom-up communication of the chain of command. Prior to execution, leaders must properly prepare themselves, their units, and their soldiers to execute training to standard. During the execution phase soldiers, leaders, and units perform realistic hands-on training for war. This chapter focuses on presentation of the training task and performance of the task to standard. Example field exercises in this chapter illustrate how well planned multiechelon training is executed. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (1 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution EXECUTION CONSIDERATIONS The proper execution of training to standard is a difficult but rewarding process. It places a significant burden on the trainer in terms of preparation and assessment of performance. The payoff for properly executed training is a unit trained to standard on its wartime mission. Division and brigade commanders, and their staffs, must be actively involved in the execution of battalion and company training. A unit executes training the same way it executes a combat mission. The chain of command is present, in charge, and responsible. ROLES IN EXECUTING TRAINING Leaders at all levels must know and understand their roles in executing training. Commanders must-- ● Be tactically and technically proficient. ● Protect subordinate unit training from distracters. ● Ruthlessly enforce the lock in of training schedules. ● Ensure pre-execution and precombat checks are completed. ● Provide the resources required for training. ● Ensure training resources are properly used. ● Be an active participant in training. ● Personally check to ensure planned training is conducted to standard. ● Evaluate training using T&EOs based upon training objectives. ● Assess soldier, leader, and unit performance. Senior NCOs are responsible for getting soldiers, subordinate leaders, and units to the training sites. They ensure that soldiers are at the right location, in the right uniform, with the right equipment, at the right time. Further, senior NCOs ensure-- ● Detailed inspections and checks are performed prior to the execution of all training. ● Prerequisite training is completed so that soldiers' time is not wasted. ● Leaders are trained and prepared to train their sections, squads, teams, or crews. They train the trainers. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (2 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution ● Preliminary training for section, squad, team, and crew has the right focus and is executed to Army standard. ● Number of tasks scheduled to be trained is realistic. ● Training is conducted to standard and meets the training objectives. Special emphasis is placed on low- density MOSs. ● Adequate time is scheduled to repeat tasks not performed to standard the first time. ● Soldiers are properly motivated and well led. ● Soldiers are present and accounted for, especially during prime-time training. Unit leaders are the primary trainers. They are responsible to-- ● Account for their soldiers. ● Know their units' and soldiers' training needs and, based on that assessment, plan appropriate time to train tasks to standard. ● Identify and conduct appropriate prerequisite training. ● Ensure training is conducted to standard. ● Retrain soldiers when standards are not met. ● Be properly prepared to conduct opportunity training whenever time is available. Before presenting training to the soldier, trainers must prepare for the training.Figure 4-1, and Figure 4-1 cont. outline guidance for trainers. PRECOMBAT CHECKS Pre-execution and precombat checks are key to ensuring trainers and soldiers are adequately prepared to execute training to Army standard. Pre-execution checks (discussed in Chapter 3) ensure that all planning and prerequisite training (soldier, leader, and collective) are conducted prior to the execution of training. Precombat checks are the bridge between pre-execution checks and execution of training. Precombat checks are detailed final checks that all units conduct before and during execution of training and combat operations. They are also conducted at the beginning of each event or exercise as part of the troop leading procedures. Although precombat checks start in garrison, some checks may be completed in the assembly area or in the battle position; for example, applying camouflage, setting radio frequencies, and distributing ammunition. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (3 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution Figure 4-2. Sample precombat checks. Additionally, precombat checks should be performed as part of stand-to. They are continuous and are repeated when mission changes occur. The chain of command is responsible for developing, validating, and verifying all precombat checks. These checks should be included in the unit tactical standing operating procedures (SOP). They can be as simple or as complex as the mission dictates. Sufficient time must be allocated on the training schedule for their execution. Items that may be found on precombat checks are at Figure 4-2. PRESENTATION OF TRAINING Presentation of training provides soldiers with the specific training objectives (tasks, conditions, and standards) to be trained, and the evaluation methods to be used. The exact type and amount of information presented prior to performing the task depend on the task and the state of training of the soldiers being trained. Whenever possible, training is presented by the chain of command. The unit leader is responsible for training his unit even if a technical trainer provides the information. Trainers primarily use three methods to present training to soldiers. They are-- ● Lecture. ● Conference. ● Demonstration (preferred method). These three methods may be used in any combination to present training. Lecture presents information with little discussion. Lectures are used when there is a large group and no performance-oriented training will be given; when time is limited; when soldiers know little about the subject; and when the lecture is preparing them for demonstration and practice. It is the least preferred method of presentation. An example of a lecture is a predeployment briefing. Conference provides soldiers the opportunity to discuss the information presented. The trainer initiates and guides the discussion. Conferences are effective when soldiers are familiar with the subject, when there is more than one correct technique or solution, and when time is not critical. Conferences do not require hands-on performance. An example of a conference is an AAR. Demonstration is the preferred method of presentation used at company level and below. The visual impact of a brief demonstration on the proper method of performing a task assists the learning process. Seeing a task performed correctly provides greater understanding than any amount of explanation. A picture is worth a thousand words. Demonstrations tend to stimulate soldier interest by providing realism that other techniques do not offer. Demonstrations-- http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (4 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution ● Save time by showing soldiers the correct way to perform a task; for example, using task, conditions, and standards. ● Use the leader as the primary trainer whenever possible. ● Present information in a manner that properly motivates. ● Conclude when soldiers understand the task well enough to perform it. Trainers can conduct demonstrations on map boards, chalkboards, and sand tables before actual execution in the field. Models are also often used to supplement demonstrations. In addition to those available at the local Training and Audiovisual Support Center (TASC), imaginative models can easily be constructed by the trainer. Sand tables are a good means to demonstrate tasks before and after executing them on terrain. Guidance for effective use of sand tables includes-- ● Keep the model interesting. Cardboard cutouts, bits of wood, or stones may represent equipment. For training squad-sized units, soldiers may be depicted with paper cutouts or coins. ● Keep them simple. Piles of soil outdoors will do. Lights, colored sand, and similar features may be distracting. ● Keep the training informal. Soldier participation is essential because soldiers learn from one another. The trainer presents information that soldiers and leaders need to perform the task. He then checks for soldier understanding by asking pertinent questions. The task is explained again, as required, until the task is understood by all soldiers. PERFORMANCE OF TRAINING Performance begins immediately following presentation. It is the hands-on execution of a training task or event. Early performance reinforces newly acquired skills and converts them into usable soldier, leader, and unit skills. For the soldiers being trained, it reinforces the instruction, fixes the Army standard for the task, and builds confidence. Performance of soldiers, leaders, and units is evaluated against ARTEP, MTP, MQS, or SM standards for all training. AARs must be planned and conducted after each major event or at logical breaks in training. Leaders emphasize accomplishing training to standard by identifying the Army standard and, more important, by demanding that standards be achieved. They ensure soldiers understand when they have not performed training to standard. Leaders must allow sufficient time to retrain the task until it can be performed correctly. Time and other resources must be allocated to retrain and reexecute tasks not performed to standard. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (5 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution Further, leaders tailor conditions to the appropriate level of training. They add progressively difficult conditions to increase the challenge as proficiency increases. They add realism and complexity as rapidly as possible to achieve actual wartime conditions. There are three stages of training. Each stage can occur separately or in combination. Leaders must ensure soldiers and units move through the first two stages as soon as standards are met. These stages are-- ● Initial training (little or no familiarity with a given task). ● Refresher training (requires training on certain subtasks). ● Sustainment training (meets the training objective, but will lose proficiency without practice). Key points of these stages are summarized at Figure 4-3. Figure 4-3. Stages of training. The following shows how the stages of training can be applied. In this example, leaders vary the difficulty of conditions as soldier proficiency improves. A communications jamming squad had received new soldiers within the past two months. To integrate them into the teams and ensure they were trained, the squad leader requested and received training time at a platoon meeting. He provided his training plan to his platoon leader. It was incorporated into the company training schedule and published four weeks out. The teams executed their precombat checks, to include before-operations PMCS of their vehicles and communications equipment. They then moved from the motor pool and established initial jamming sites on a local vacant lot. Once the task was accomplished to standard, the team leaders tactically deployed the teams to a wooded area during daylight hours to reexecute the task. When the teams received a go on the task, the squad leader increased the difficulty by requiring them to practice in mission oriented protection posture (MOPP) 4. They were then required, as a final degree of difficulty, to relocate and establish the sites several times that night. After the next morning's stand-to, the teams moved to the wash rack, cleaned their vehicles, and returned to the motor pool. They performed their after-operations PMCS and cleaned and turned in their weapons and other equipment. Before releasing his teams, the squad leader conducted an informal AAR to take advantage of the lessons learned during the training. KEYS TO SUCCESS Using the principles of training discussed in Chapter 1, commanders ensure that properly executed training is well structured, realistic, safe, and effective. Other important considerations which help ensure success in training and in combat follow. FOCUS ON THE FUNDAMENTALS Commanders and leaders must keep it simple: move, shoot, communicate, sustain, and secure. Units must be http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (6 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution proficient on basic tasks before progressing to the more complex tasks. All basic tasks provide the foundation on which to build performance of soldier tasks, drills, and METL tasks to standard. Command and control, logistical operations, and NBC must be incorporated into all training. LIVE FIRE EXERCISES Live fire exercises (LFXs) closely replicate battlefield conditions. They develop confidence and esprit, as well as reinforce soldier, leader, and unit discipline. Whenever possible, combined arms LFXs (CALFEXs) should be conducted to train on the coordination and control measures required to effectively synchronize combat power on the battlefield. LFXs are a critical link in providing soldiers with an understanding of the danger, confusion, and speed of combat operations. Section, squad, team, and crew proficiencymust be demonstrated before LFXs are conducted at platoon level and above. NIGHT AND ADVERSE WEATHER TRAINING Night training and adverse weather training are keys to success in combat. All units in the US Army, not just combat units, must be totally proficient in operating at night and during adverse weather conditions. Routinely training under these conditions gives units a distinct advantage when executing combat operations. Soldiers must be proficient in the use of limited visibility equipment, such as night observation devices, thermal sights, and laser equipment. Maneuver forces can gain an advantage by performing logistical functions (resupply, maintenance, and medical) during night and adverse weather conditions. This impairs the enemy's intelligence collection efforts and aids deception operations. Reverse cycle training should be planned, when possible, to take advantage of every opportunity to replicate a 24-hour wartime environment. Training must be structured to expose soldiers and leaders to unexpected situations, both favorable and unfavorable. Tasks must be executed confidently and competently during the fog of battle. Tough and realistic training challenges the leader and soldier to overcome the hardships and uncertainties of combat. Leaders must teach their soldiers that combat cannot be reduced to a set of calculations or checklists. Challenging training inspires excellence by fostering initiative, enthusiasm, confidence, and the ability to apply the learned tasks in the dynamic environment of combat. DRILLS Drills provide small units standard procedures essential for building strong, aggressive units. A unit's ability to accomplish its mission often depends on soldiers, leaders, and units executing key actions quickly. All soldiers and their leaders must understand their immediate reaction to enemy contact. They must also understand squad or platoon follow-up actions to maintain momentum and offensive spirit on the battlefield. Drills are limited to situations requiring instantaneous response; therefore, soldiers must execute drills instinctively. This results from continual practice. Drills provide standardized actions that link soldier and collective tasks at platoon level and below. At company and above, integration of systems and synchronization demand an analysis of METT-T. Standard tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) help to speed the decision and action cycle of units above platoon level, but they are not drills. There are two types of drills which apply to all type units--battle drills and crew drills. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (7 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution A battle drill is a collective action rapidly executed without applying a deliberate decision making process. Characteristics of battle drills follow: ● They require minimal leader orders to accomplish and are standard throughout the Army. ● Sequential actions are vital to success in combat or critical to preserving life. ● They apply to platoon or smaller units. ● They are trained responses to enemy actions or leaders' orders. ● They represent mental steps followed for offensive and defensive actions in training and combat. For example, an infantry squad battle drill, Battle Drill 1A, React to Contact, is found in ARTEP 7-8-Drill. A crew drill is a collective action that the crew of a weapon or piece of equipment must perform to use the weapon or equipment. This action is a trained response to a given stimulus, such as a leader order or the status of the weapon or equipment. Like the battle drill, it requires minimal leader orders to accomplish and is standard throughout the Army. An example CSS crew drill is Drill #5: Preparing Heavy Equipment Transporter (HET), M747 and XM747 Semitrailer for Loading a Tank, from ARTEP 55-188-30-Drill. LANE TRAINING Lane training is a technique for training primarily company team-level and smaller units on a series of selected soldier, leader, and collective tasks using specific terrain. Lane training uses multiechelon techniques to maximize the efficient use of limited terrain and control conditions for formal or informal evaluations. Lane training is externally supported, resourced, and evaluated. It enables similar units to simultaneously or sequentially train to standard on mission-related scenarios. Lane training is resource-intensive, so commanders must maximize its benefit. They narrow the focus and select only the most critical METL or collective tasks for training. Lane training is especially valuable for conducting specific METL tasks, situational training exercises (STXs), and competitions. It is often associated with training requiring movement over terrain; for example, Movement to Contact and Assault. However, the concept also applies to rotating through stationary training sites. This round robin technique may be effectively used for Expert Field Medic Badge (EFMB), Expert Infantryman Badge (EIB), common task, NBC, or MOS-specific training. Other examples of lane training are at pages 4-22, 4-37, 4- 42, and 4-46. Lane training is an effective way to standardize TTP. It also enables commanders to control tasks, conditions, and standards during competition. COMPETITION Effective training can be competitive. Although soldiers, leaders, and units may sometimes compete with one another, they should always compete to achieve the prescribed Army standard. Once units can perform a task to Army standards, leaders progressively increase the difficulty of conditions under which the task is executed. During competition, leaders should recognize soldiers or units exceeding established standards. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (8 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution Competition can be used to stimulate soldier interest and morale, select participants for higher level competitions, encourage higher levels of performance, and provide an event for a rigorous training period. Examples are marksmanship, physical training, howitzer or air defense section evaluations, and tank and BFV crew live fire exercises. POST OPERATIONS CHECKS Post operations checks are those tasks a unit accomplishes at the conclusion of training. These checks should be part of the unit SOP. They will vary depending on the type of training; for example, an FTX would require more extensive post operations checks than garrison type training. Sample post operations checks include the following: ● Soldier accountability. ● Sensitive item accountability (such as weapons or communications security (COSEC). ● Report closure of unit to higher headquarters. ● Ammunition and equipment turn-in (TADSS). ● Maintenance (vehicle, weapons, communications): --Equipment cleaned. --Thorough PMCS after-operations checks. --Required services performed. ● Training assessments: --Leaders record results of training in leader books. --AARs completed. --After action report initiated, if appropriate. ● Soldier recovery. ● Chain of command inspections of soldiers and equipment. EXAMPLE EXERCISES As discussed at the beginning of this chapter, execution of training to standard is the payoff for all other phases of the training management cycle. Leaders must ensure that training is properly planned and vigorously executed to http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (9 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution the established standard. Effective execution depends on proper preparation and attention to detail. It is based on accomplishment of the training objectives established for the training period. Leaders at all levels must be personally involved and present during the training to ensure it is conducted to standard. Figure 4-4 shows other keys to successful training execution. One way to train and evaluate skills is to use a multiechelon training event. Exercises such as FTXs, CFXs, and CPXs allow the simultaneous training and evaluation on any combination of soldier, leader, and collective tasks at more than one echelon. The following multiechelon examples (TF 1-77 FTX, 52d Engineer Battalion CFX, and 1st FSB FTX EXEVAL) highlight efficient and effective ways to train and sustain on a diverse number of mission essential tasks with limited time and terrain. The FTX conducted by TF 1-77 is based on the METL developed in Chapter 2. In Chapter 3, the commander used his assessment and higher headquarters' guidance (Appendix A) to form a training strategy and, subsequently, a plan to train on specific METL tasks. Additionally, CS (52d Engineer Battalion CFX) and CSS (lst FSB FTX EXEVAL) exercise examples are provided to demonstrate how these type units apply training execution techniques and procedures. In the exercises, leaders at every level set training objectives for selected tasks based on their assessments of training strengths and weaknesses. They also planned opportunity training to meet the needs of their particular units. All three exercises describe examples of prerequisite training which occurs prior to the exercise. Figure 4-4. The exercises also provide example functions and activities conducted during execution and after redeployment to home station. RC leaders could apply these same techniques during annual or inactive duty training. TF 1-77 FTX Pre-FTX TF 1-77 was scheduled to participate in the 1st Brigade CPX (15 through 18 March) which was supported by the division simulation center. The battalion commander planned an FTX to follow the brigade CPX. In the short- range planning phase, the battalion commander and S3 began planning the FTX. At battalion training meetings, they discussed the training needs of the battalion with the company commanders. The company commanders and CSM provided feedback on their soldier and collective training needs based on the METL and their assessments. From this input, the battalion S3 put together a proposed task list from which the battalion commander selected battalion tasks to be trained during the FTX. The commander based his selection on his most recent assessment of unit proficiency. A sample of the tasks to be trained is at Figure 4-5. The S3 planned a five-phase FTX (Figure 4-6) to train the tasks selected by the battalion commander. The plan included the time the battalion commander, staff, and company commanders were involved in the brigade CPX as well as the scheduled time period of the battalion FTX. The highlights of events to be scheduled follow: ● Prerequisite training (during the brigade CPX, 15 through 17 March). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (10 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution ● CSS and C2 operations throughout. ● Alert, conduct of precombat checks, and movement to assembly area. ● Companies occupy and prepare defensive positions. ● Company STX and FCX lanes. ● Task force defense in sector. ● CALFEX. ● Post operations recovery. Figure 4-5. Sample TF 1-77 FTX training tasks. Figure 4-6. FTX Plan. The plan the battalion commander approved emphasized company and lower training utilizing STX lanes. Each company is to be given a day on each lane to allow the company commanders to train or retrain based on their assessments. The events to be trained on the STX lanes are found at Figure 4-7. This figure provides the collective tasks and a sampling of soldier tasks to be trained during the FTX. The T&EOs used during the FTX were from applicable ARTEP MTPs and were used to guide soldier, leader, and unit training. This enabled the staff to plan the training based on doctrinal publications without developing T&EOs from scratch. The FTX was briefed first to the brigade commander and then to the division commander during the QTB. It was approved as planned. The training objectives for the brigade CPX were based on the brigade commander's assessment of brigade's training needs. The simulation-driven CPX provided the battalion commander and staff excellent prerequisite training on staff actions, production of orders, andcommand and control. It was conducted in a field environment to replicate wartime conditions. The CPX allowed sufficient time for the staff to use the backward planning sequence to give the companies their two-thirds planning time for the TF FTX and company STXs. The battalion commander, staff, and company commanders were involved in the simulation driven brigade CPX. At the same time, company commanders were training their platoon leaders on STX tasks by conducting a MAPEX and a battalion-directed TEWT on the terrain to be used during the STXs. The MAPEX and TEWT were included as part of the brigade CPX, which allowed the battalion commander to supervise these activities. The squad and section leaders conducted soldier training and executed drills that they had assessed as needing training. These tasks were reviewed by the 1SGs and platoon leaders to ensure they supported the planned collective tasks. Figure 4-7. TF execution and evaluation plan. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (11 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution Time was allocated on the training schedule, and a detailed training plan was prepared. Figure 4-8 shows some activities the TF 1-77 conducted prior to the FTX. A sample of training prior to the battalion FTX follows. During a platoon meeting in mid-February, Staff Sergeant (SSG) Steele, a squad leader in Bravo Company, learned of the training time he had available 15 through 17 March. He also learned the collective tasks the company and platoon were to execute during the FTX. SSG Steele completed his training plan several days later and received approval from his platoon leader and PSG. The plan was based on his training assessment of his squad, the platoon leader's guidance, and the PSG's and 1SG's input. He completed the plan quickly and developed his pre-execution checks. This ensured he had plenty of time to gather his resources, prepare himself, and rehearse his training with the PSG and platoon leader. Figure 4-9 shows the tasks he planned for those days. Figure 4-8. TF 1-77 pre-FTX activities Figure 4-9. Sample squad tasks. The training schedule for 15 March allotted time for the squad to conduct precombat checks. SSG Steele used the time to inspect his soldiers to ensure they were prepared for training. With the precombat checks complete, he moved his squad, using tactical movement techniques, to a close-in training area. SSG Steele gathered his squad together and covered the tasks, conditions, and standards that were required for the day's training. He had the soldier's manual, drill book, and ARTEP MTP at the training site to answer any questions. He walked the soldiers through each task before they performed it. After this portion of the training, SSG Steele emplaced his squad into a position he had reconned the week prior to conduct the tasks under simulated combat conditions. The soldiers were required to use the tasks they had learned by constructing a complete fighting position. Once the soldiers were well on their way digging their fighting positions, SSG Steele assembled the team leaders for leader training on emplacing a minefield. This reinforced the train the trainer technique, ensuring that the leaders could conduct the task to standard prior to training their soldiers. He structured this training so that the team leaders could periodically return to supervise the preparation of the defense. When the positions were complete, the squad leader held an AAR. He found that two of the soldiers still did not understand how to properly prepare the Dragon range card. He tasked the team leader to retrain those soldiers after the mine training was conducted. SSG Steele then reinforced the mine training by having the team leaders emplace a minefield. He conducted an AAR that reviewed all the tasks trained that day. Before the squad departed the training area, SSG Steele ensured that all personnel and equipment were accounted for. SSG Steele supervised post operations checks in accordance with the training plan and the training schedule. Upon arrival in the company area, he kept his squad together while they cleaned their weapons and equipment. This allowed him to continue to informally train his squad as well as to supervise proper weapons maintenance. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (12 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution During this period, SSG Steele reinforced the day's training by questioning the soldiers on the characteristics of mines, fighting positions, and range cards. Additionally, he talked about the training to be conducted the next day. He told the soldiers the preparations they were to make before First Call. In another company, one of the platoons was going to conduct marksmanship training. Each squad leader was responsible for conducting prerequisite training prior to the FTX. The following training situation is an illustration of one squad leader's training. The squad leader learned at a platoon meeting that a dismounted live fire ambush was to be conducted during the FTX. He requested and received training time prior to the FTX to conduct preliminary marksmanship instruction. Seven of the nine squad members were authorized M16A2 rifles (the other two soldiers were authorized M249 Squad Automatic Weapons (SAWs)). His assessment of his soldiers' marksmanship proficiency indicated-- ● One soldier (new to the unit) needed initial training because he failed to qualify on his weapon at his last unit and showed little familiarity with the M16A2. ● Four soldiers needed refresher training. One soldier qualified marksman and three qualified as sharpshooter during the last range firing. ● Two soldiers needed sustainment training. Both qualified expert during the last range firing. The squad leader developed a training plan to ensure that his soldiers were prepared for the firing. The squad leader, as the primary trainer, used the team leaders who qualified expert to assist in the training. Execution of his training plan follows: ● Initial training: The team leader (assistant squad leader) (who qualified expert) trained the new soldier on each of the following steps until all steps were performed properly and in the correct sequence. Step One. Set battlesight zero. Step Two. Align sight picture and sight. Step Three. Adjust point of aim. Step Four. Load, reduce a stoppage, and clear a rifle. Step Five. Estimate range. Step Six. Learn four fundamentals of rifle marksmanship. ● Refresher training: The squad leader (who qualified expert) trained the other four soldiers in the following steps: Step One. Pretest on the six tasks above. Three of the four soldiers performed all tasks properly and in the proper sequence. Under the supervision of their fire team leader, the three soldiers were released to perform PMCS on their M16 rifles, and other planned opportunity training. Step Two. Conduct refresher training. The remaining soldier received additional training until he performed all tasks correctly. ● Sustainment Training: Prior to conducting the ambush, the squad leader reviewed marksmanship http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (13 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution fundamentals with his squad. In another platoon, prerequisite training was scheduled based on the platoon leader's assessment and tasks to be conducted during the TF FTX. During the preparation for the FTX, Lieutenant (LT) Jones sustained the gunnery skills that his squads had developed during previous qualification gunnery exercises. He built on current skills and conducted training in fire distribution and control. His assessment of his platoon's status for the CALFEX was that his crews were strong in crew gunnery skills and individual marksmanship but relatively weak in platoon fire distribution and control. Lieutenant Jones used the time available in the unit conduct-of-fire trainer (UCOFT) to sustain his crew proficiency and cross train some of his more experienced crew members to replace combat losses. A gunnery skills test was conducted to evaluate the technical proficiency of vehicle crews and a crew proficiency course was conducted to sustain crew teamwork. LT Jones began his training in fire distribution and control with a sand table exercise. He wanted to ensure that his subordinate leaders understood how to control fires within the platoon. He used subcaliber devices in conjunction with a minitank range to begin live fire training. Platoon leaders and tank commanders participated in company run simulations networking (SIMNET) exercises to ensure integration of company and platoon fire planning. FTX Specific events are highlighted throughout the FTX and activities are identified for different unit levels. The FTX uses the phases found in Figure 4-6 . Chapter 5 covers assessment for the TF 1-77 FTX. Phases A and B. At 2400 hours on 17 March, the battalion commander called an alert to test the readiness SOP. He had the battalion executive officer and staff inspect the battalion's compliance with its load plans. He also had the CSM check on the NCOs' supervision and conduct of precombat checks. The battalion promptly executed the first phase of the FTX. The alert stressed the battalion's EDRE SOP and the alert's decentralized execution. A sample of the battalion's execution activities is at Figure 4-10. As the soldiers of a squad in Charlie Company began to arrive, the squad leader, SSG Campbell, began to conduct his precombat checks to prepare his squad for the exercise. He found that his squad's fighting vehicle was not loaded in accordance with (IAW) the load plan. SSG Campbell stopped the precombat check process and had the squad off-load the vehicle. He made it clear that the standard would be enforced. He reemphasized to his soldiers the importance of a load plan. They then reloaded the vehicle according to the load plan. While waiting to start movement to the assembly area, SSG Campbell seized the opportunity to reinforce the training. He blindfolded the soldiers and made them identify and or find items in their vehicle. At the AAR, the feedback from the soldiers indicated that the extra time spent to properly prepare for combat was one of the most important tasks. The companies completed their troop leading procedures and precombat checks. They dispatched their quartering parties for occupation of the assembly area. The headquarters company commander led a quartering party to the new TOC location before the TOC jumped. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (14 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution Figure 4-10. Battalion FTX execution activities. The sequence of events left little time to rehearse actions upon arrival at the assembly areas (AAs). The battalion planned separate company routes to the AAs and gave the units extra time to make the movement. This allowed the platoons to rehearse Reaction to Contact battle drills enroute to the AAs. For practice, the battalion command group exercised control over the companies while the main TOC was displacing. First Platoon, A Company, was conducting battle drill, React to Indirect Fire, (7-3/4-9036) from ARTEP 7-8- Drill; it was having difficulty reorganizing after moving out of the artillery impact area. The platoon leader, LT Sherrill, gathered the platoon and conducted an AAR. He determined that some of the new soldiers did not know and understand key visual signals. Unable to retrain immediately, LT Sherrill moved the platoon to the AA. After occupation was complete, LT Sherrill was called to conduct a recon of the defensive position. Sergeant First Class (SFC) Caine finished preparing the platoon for the upcoming Defend mission. He then seized the opportunity to retrain React to Indirect Fire while the platoon leader was on the leaders' recon. SFC Caine reviewed the battle drill to ensure he knew the task, conditions, standards, performance measures, and supporting soldier tasks before he started the training. He then prepared a training plan of key tasks that the soldiers and platoon needed to train on. SFC Caine focused this training plan on the task, conditions, standards, and supporting tasks shown in Figure 4-11. While the soldiers ate chow, SFC Caine used a sand table to demonstrate the drill to the squad leaders. He emphasized the hand and arm signals as he moved the squad and soldier figures on the sand table. The squad leaders returned to train their squads. While the squads were conducting this training, SFC Caine located terrain close by to conduct the drill collectively as a platoon. After the squads had completed the squad training to standard, the platoon assembled and SFC Caine reviewed the training. Satisfied that the soldiers knew the supporting tasks, he took them to the piece of terrain chosen earlier. He walked them through the drill, and after the second iteration, the platoon executed the drill with artillery simulators. After the AAR, the soldiers returned to the AA, prepared to execute the drill during theoccupation of the defense if required. Once the companies had occupied their defensive positions, the leaders prepared their soldiers for theSTX and FCX lanes. Figure 4-11. Battle Drill 4A. Phase C. The companies continued to improve their defensive positions and conduct maintenance and sustainment operations when not on an STX or FCX lane. The teams and companies moved to their assigned STX or FCX lanes early each day and linked up with OCs and the OPFOR commander. TF 1-77 had already coordinated the training events for each STX or FCX four weeks prior during an OC and OPFOR training and coordination meeting. The 1-2 Armor supplied the OCs, OPFOR, and STX and FCX lane support. Each company in 1-2 Armor was assigned responsibility for one of the lanes. TF 1-77 commander and S3 conducted a TEWT with the 1-2 Armor commander, S3, and company commanders after the OC and OPFOR training. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (15 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution TF 1-77 provided T&EOs to 1-2 Armor for each STX and FCX lane. These T&EOs provided the basis for 1-2 Armor's selection of OPFOR T&EOs. The 1-2 Armor also planned OPFOR opportunity training. The coordination meeting and TEWT provided the company commanders the information needed to complete their training schedules prior to the four-week training schedule lock in. The STX and FCX lanes were designed to allow the company commander to vary the conditions to the appropriate training level of the unit (initial, refresher, sustainment) and to support prerequisite training and retraining. The modular format of the lane enabled the commander to retrain a specific event if required. An example of a STX lane is at Figure 4-12. The battalion commander, CSM, and S3 observed and supervised training at the three STX lanes. The lane training was sequenced to allow the battalion commander to consistently move to different training sites to assess all companies' training. The STX and FCX lanes were executed with mixed results. The OCs, OPFOR, leader and soldier observations, and AARs helped identify strengths and weaknesses from soldier to company level. The leaders used all their time on the lanes to correct weaknesses; however, some units ran out of time. In these cases, the leaders took advantage of any opportunity to correct these weaknesses during the FTX. The teams and companies rotated through each lane during Phase C. Each night the units improved their defensive positions. These defensive positions would be their assigned battle positions for the battalion defensive FCX and CALFEX in Phase D. A mass casualty (MASCAL) exercise was scheduled to test the evaluation system from company level to the brigade support area (BSA). The 1st FSB had coordinated for support of this event during the short-range planning process. Team A and the OPFOR were tasked to provide the casualties at the end of their conduct of the STX lane C/D (Figure 4-6). Further discussion of this event is found in the 1st FSB example. Phase D. The preparation of the defense involved the entire battalion to meet the Be Prepared to Defend time in the OPORD. A snapshot of the battalion's execution during this phase is at Figure 4-13 The battalion commander ordered reconnaissance patrols in sector while the companies occupied their defensive positions at night. As the patrols were debriefed, the S2 determined that the enemy was using one trail heavily. The OPFOR had conducted Movement to Portray a Realistic Situation to Support a Squad Live Fire Ambush starting-on 19 March. One infantry squad per platoon in the TF conducted the ambush evening. The execution of the exercise was rotated among the companies. Each squad was given a fragmentary order (FRAGO) and time to conduct a blank fire and MILES rehearsal on terrain similar to the live fire site. Precombat checks were conducted in an assembly area before the squads departed to the live fire site. The squads moved to an objective rally point (ORP), and the leaders went on a leaders' recon. The recon also served as a key leader walk-through to ensure the exercise would be conducted safely. The 1-2 Armor provided OCs to evaluate the squads throughout the exercise. The chain of command was responsible for the safety and evaluation of the squads' performance. The exercise was phased to allow an AAR http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (16 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution at the site. If retraining was required, resources and time were made available the next night. The squad live fire exercises were completed with only one squad having to retrain and execute again. The task force FSO and the battalion mortar platoon leader planned to rotate the mortar platoon through each STX or FCX lane and support a different company daily. At night the platoon, minus one section, would displace to a firing point to provide offset live fire support for the defensive STXs with the artillery battery. Each night, a different mortar section would operate as a split section to support the squad live fire ambushes. Each evening's training objectives culminated in a combined artillery and mortar live fire. The company forward observers (FOs) were rotated to the observation point to adjust the fire. As planned, 1-2 Armor provided mortar OCs to help evaluate the mortar training. Figure 4-12. Example company STX lane. The 1-2 Armor also ensured time standards were met. The artillery battalion provided OCs to evaluate TF 1-77's supporting artillery battery. The battery supported the FCX and defensive STXs throughout Phase C. The defense was well on its way to being completed. Leaders ensured that soldier, leader,and collective tasks were linked and performed to standard. The Commander, Team A (TF 1-77's tank heavy unit), wanted his chain of command personally involved. He wanted them to supervise throughout the preparation of battle positions during the defense. Some of the platoon and crew collective tasks were assessed as "P" as a result of the last field exercise. The commander wanted extra attention paid to those tasks. As the team commander and 1SG checked the defensive sector with platoon leaders, they found that PSGs and other NCO leaders were coaching soldiers and checking each battle position. However, one new PSG was not enforcing the standard to the commander's satisfaction. The PSG had checked a position, but had not corrected a problem the tank crew was having in clearing fields of fire and preparing a range card. The commander discussed the situation with the platoon leader to reinforce the chain of command. He wanted to ensure the platoon leader understood the collective task and supporting soldier tasks and how they linked to the TF's METL. As the platoon leader discussed the problem with the PSG, he used this same leader training process and emphasized corrections be made through the chain of command to the soldiers. The NCOs are the key to accomplishing all tasks. Figure 4-13. Phase D execution activities. The TF defense was emplaced to facilitate a CALFEX. Since 18 March, when they were not training on STX lanes, the units in the task force had been preparing their defensive positions. The defensive concept of operation to be executed as a CALFEX was planned during the brigade CPX. Figure 4-14 shows the scenario for the CALFEX. The CALFEX OC plan included a terrain walk of the entire defense to familiarize OCs with all safety requirements. The OC training included the following: ● Purpose and scope. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (17 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution ● Training objectives. ● Range regulations and restrictions. ● Enemy situation and its relationship to the target arrays. ● Control measures. ● Communications plan. ● Controller duties. ● Controller reporting formats and responsibilities. ● Safety before, during, and after the LFX. ● Medical treatment and evacuation procedures. The TF conducted the CALFEX according to plan. The defense provided the battalion with valuable lessons in integration and control of fires, coordination between units, rates and distribution of fire, and effectiveness of the combined arms team against realistic targets. The chief OC and TF commander conducted an AAR with the chain of command and OC personnel. They discussed the following: ● Troop-leading procedures. ● Integration and control of fires. ● Weapons employment. ● Communication of orders and directives. Figure 4-14. CALFEX scenario. The final event in Phase D was conducted after the battalion commander had verified through the chain of command that all ammunition was expended and weapons were safe. The TF was surprised by an OPFOR flank attack which forced them to withdraw under enemy pressure. After the TF had occupied its new position and conducted an AAR, the commander directed the TF to commence Phase E. Phase E. The commander gathered the officers together to discuss and refight the withdrawal which took place in Phase D. Their job was to determine what happened, why it happened and what to do about it. The CSM took control of the rest of the battalion while the officers were retraining. The final event was for the units to redeploy to garrison. To maximize resources, the CSM included a mounted land navigation course of two points for each platoon or section. Using four routes, and 20-minute intervals, the http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (18 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution platoon and sections moved to garrison. As the units arrived at each point, they were given tasks, conditions, and standards for the leaders to call for fire and for selected soldiers to identify enemy weapons and vehicles. As the units arrived at the release point, the CSM and 1SGs took the opportunity to professionally develop the leaders by discussing what had happened and recommending ways to correct the shortcomings. SSG Lope started his recovery during post operations. Instead of splitting his squad up to accomplish the many tasks simultaneously, he kept them together. This allowed him to obtain additional feedback for the final AAR and train the soldiers informally on their weaknesses. During the land navigation exercise, two soldiers were weak on threat identification tasks. As the squad cleaned weapons, he retrained the soldiers on those particular tasks. He also retrained tasks he had noted in his leader book during the FTX. SSG Lope inspected the weapons before they were turned in and ensured they were cleaned and maintained to standard. The BFV crew conducted after-operations PMCS. The squad assisted in cleaning and maintaining the BFV. The recovery process is an extension of precombat checks, and once completed formally, it signifies end of exercise. The squad leader supervises this final phase of the FTX. The unit SOP dictated a three-step recovery process during post operations that culminated in a chain of command inspection. An example of a recovery process is at Figure 4-15 . 52D ENGINEER BATTALION CFX This is an in-depth discussion of the application of the training techniques, procedures, and multiechelon training by a CS unit. Even though an engineer battalion CFX is used to demonstrate certain techniques and procedures, all combat support units can apply these techniques. Pre-CFX During his long-range planning, the commander of the 52d Engineer Battalion scheduled a battalion CFX (See Appendix C) to occur concurrently with a projected 1st Brigade CPX (Mar, 9X). The battalion commander chose a CFX because the battalion's S3, S4, and Bravo Company commander had changed within 45 days of the 1st Brigade CPX. Additionally, Alpha Company would be in the field to support TF1-77's FTX (see Appendix A). A CFX provided an excellent opportunity to practice C2 tasks assessed as "P" during the commander's short-range planning. It also allowed the commander to assess the leader development needs of the new company commander and staff officers. During the CFX, the NCO leaders of the battalion units not in the field would conduct training on collective and soldier tasks which supported the battalion's METL. The battalion commander assessed the unit's ability to execute its METL prior to publishing his second quarter QTG. He assessed the battalion as "P" in its ability to execute three of its METL tasks: Perform Combined Arms Engineer Reconnaissance, Prepare Combined Arms Obstacle Plan, and Reorganize as Infantry. The first two tasks were selected for emphasis during the CFX. The battalion staff officers and company commanders identified those critical tasks which support the battalion's tasks and that were assessed as "P." Their training assessments determined the following battalion battle tasks (critical company and staff METL tasks) needed emphasis during the upcoming CFX: Figure 4-15. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (19 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution ● Prepare an operations plan (OPLAN) and operations order (OPORD) (staff). ● Prepare combined arms obstacle plan (staff). ● Plan and direct combined arms engineer reconnaissance (staff). ● Secure and defend unit position (company). ● Prepare an engineer annex (company). ● Conduct engineer reconnaissance (company). ● Prepare a combined arms obstacle plan (company). ● Conduct minefield reduction operations (company). Their assessment identified these collective tasks for Company A: ● Conduct enemy obstacle reconnaissance (platoon). ● Conduct an in-stride breach of a minefield (platoon). ● Emplace a tactical minefield (platoon). ● Conduct an engineer reconnaissance (squad or section). ● Create an Assault Lane in a Threat Surface Laid Minefield with Hand Emplaced Explosives (Squad Drill #2). In addition to the above listed tasks, the NCO leaders compiled a list of supporting soldier tasks chosen for training during the CFX. The NCOs chose those tasks that they assessed needed training and that supported their platoons', sections', and squads' critical collective tasks. They used applicable military occupational skill STPs, such as STP 5-12B24-SM-TG and STP 5-12F1-SM, and the Soldier's Manual of Common Tasks. The NCOs selected the tasks shown in Figure 4-16 (example list does not include all tasks or MOSs). Figure 4-16. Sample supporting leader and soldier tasks. Because 1st Brigade's simulation-driven CPX was based on the division's wartime OPLAN, the 52d Engineer Battalion commander decided to synchronize the battalion's CFX scenario with 1st Brigade's scenario. Figure 4- 17 is a matrix used by the commander and staff to plan the schedule of events during the CFX. The battalion commander and CSM briefed the division commander during the QTB on their training plan for the CFX. The division commander approved the plan and agreed to resource the battalion. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (20 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution The OCs for the 52d Engineer Battalion CFX and Company A FTX would come from an RC engineer battalion. The 25th Engineer Battalion was aligned with the 52d Engineer Battalion under the partnership program. As OCs, the 25th Engineer Battalion leadership could learn new TTP as well as provide a valuable service to the 52d Engineer Battalion. Figure 4-17. Engineer Battalion execution and evaluation plan. The staff developed a pre-execution checklist for the exercise. Example pre-execution checks follow: ● Ensure that sufficient maps (1:50,000) and weather and terrain overlays are on hand. ● Coordinate with the 25th Engineer Battalion for evaluators. ● Develop an exercise scenario portraying division and brigade operations in coordination with the division and brigade G3s and S3s. ● Coordinate development of division and brigade OPORDs to support the exercise scenario. ● Conduct a TEWT in early March (battalion). ● Arrange for Army aviation assets for aerial reconnaissance. ● Arrange for division terrain team support. ● Conduct prerequisite training on threat engineer vehicles, capabilities, and tactics. ● Conduct training on the collective and soldier tasks required for the exercise (emphasize drills). The officer and NCO leaders reviewed the list of tasks the CFX would focus on and determined which prerequisite tasks to train prior to the start of the exercise. Figure 4-18 shows common leader and soldier tasks which the leaders selected to train before the CFX. The leaders decided the training time each prerequisite task required. During the next company training meeting, the PSGs and section noncommissioned officers in charge (NCOICs) presented their training time requirements to the company commander and 1SG. The company commander and 1SG examined the requests to see if the platoons' training could be effectively combined, or if the training could be accomplished in a multiechelon format. The requested training was then approved and placed on the draft training schedule for the appropriate week. Master Sergeant (MSG) Ruddy, the battalion operations sergeant, recommended setup and takedown of the battalion command post (CP). He estimated the NCOs and soldiers needed to practice the procedures at least three times prior to the CFX. He based this estimate on many factors, including personnel turnover and the length of time since the last field deployment. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (21 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution Figure 4-18. Sample prerequisite training tasks. MSG Ruddy recommended the training be conducted during the last week of February and the first week of March. The company commander and 1SG agreed and directed the training be placed on the training schedule. Later that week, MSG Ruddy suggested the officers' February MAPEX be conducted in the tactical CP after the NCOs completed training the setup procedures. The battalion S3 concurred and talked to the battalion commander about the idea. The commander approved the recommendation but directed that the MAPEX start in the afternoon. This gave the NCOs adequate time for retraining, if required. During the last week of February, MSG Ruddy and the section NCOICs taught CP setup on a nearby field. The section NCOs walked the soldiers completely through the process of setting up and taking down the CP. The soldiers then set up the CP at their own pace. The section NCOICs provided individual instruction whenever it was clear a soldier did not understand the task he was required to accomplish. After the CP complex was established, each section NCOIC conducted training on the procedures outlined in the tactical SOP for those soldiers who had arrived since the last field exercise. When the CP setup was completed, the staff officers moved into the CP and conducted a MAPEX. The NCOs supervised the soldiers to take down the CP after they finished the MAPEX. Before meeting the ARTEP MTP standards, the soldiers rehearsed the CP's setup, operation, and takedown two more times prior to start of exercise (STARTEX). CFX This section focuses on the actual conduct of the CFX. The situations illustrate methods of conducting multiechelon training. The sequence of events is keyed to the CFX phases as outlined in Figure 4-17. A discussion of recommended evaluations and AARs can be found in Chapter 5. Phase A. Early on the first day of the CFX, the battalion alerted the HHC, Bravo Company, remaining company commanders, and platoon leaders. Leaders conducted the following precombat checks: ● Accounted for soldiers and weapons. ● Verified status of vehicles and trailers. ● Verified status of supplies; for example, packaged Class III and maps. ● Verified status of communications equipment, signal operation instructions (SOI), and other COMSEC equipment. ● Checked battle rosters and load plans. ● Completed before-operation PMCS. ● Inspected soldiers to ensure they have the needed equipment and they are properly camouflaged. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (22 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution ● Ensured blank rounds and blank adapters were issued. ● Ensured safety checks and briefings were completed. ● Ensured advance and quartering parties were briefed and ready. Two hours after the alert notice, the units departed garrison and moved to and occupied their AAs. After the AAs were occupied, the evaluators facilitated an AAR. The battalion received the division OPORD two hours after arriving in the assembly area. The staff received the commander's approved course of action at 1220. Figure 4-19 shows training conducted at the AA as the staff prepared the battalion OPORD. While the battalion commander was walking the battalion CP defensive perimeter, he discovered the guard post at the dismount point had no communications with the CP. The soldiers also had not selected a temporary fighting position from which to observe the road. Upon questioning the soldiers, the battalion commander realized they did not understand what was required of them. The battalion commander found the HHC company commander and explained the situation to him. The battalion commander emphasized he wanted the situation corrected using the NCO chain. This would ensure that the NCOs were aware of the deficiency and that all training weaknesses were identified and corrected. A battalion OPORD was issued at 1400. The battalion was ordered to deploy into its primary positions NLT 0300. After the division's obstacle plan was approved and an AAR conducted, the battalion deployed. Phase B. The battalion executed its deployment and established the battalion's CP in accordance with MTP standards. The staff's success in setting up and operating the CP was directly attributed to the training and rehearsals held prior to the exercise. Once all subordinate elements were in position, the battalion planned and directed the platoons in engineer reconnaissance of specific routes. The battalion primary staff and company commanders conducted a map and aerial reconnaissance of selected portions of the area of operations. Figure 4-19. Sample assembly area training. The engineer reconnaissance was an excellent opportunity to conduct multiechelon training. Figure 4-20 shows training which occurred during the conduct of the reconnaissance. MSG Ruddy, the battalion operations sergeant, found time to evaluate the S3 section soldiers' ability to use proper radio procedures while the commander and staff were on the reconnaissance. He then presented training which he had prepared in garrison to the soldiers who needed it. Specialist Jones failed to properly execute the task to standard during the training. MSG Ruddy recognized that Specialist Jones was Figure 4-20. Sample multiechelon training. having problems understanding how to use the SOI authentication tables. He placed SSG Goode in charge of the section after the training was completed and coached Specialist Jones through several authentication problems until he could perform the task to standard. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (23 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution The battalion staff analyzed the results of the reconnaissance and held an AAR to discuss its conduct. The battalion commander was very pleased with how quickly and accurately the reconnaissance was completed. The CSM reported his assessment that soldier training was going well. He did point out that some instructors needed more practice making and utilizing field expedient training devices. Phases C and D. Early on the third day of the exercise, Alpha Company was alerted and moved to an AA near TF 1-77. The company evaluators (B Company, 25th Engineer Battalion) were positioned in the unit's area prior to the alert notice. Once in the AA, the company commander and platoon leaders went to TF 1-77's Main CP to receive the warning order and a situation update. The company executive officer, 1SG, and other leaders oversaw the Preparation of a Hasty Defense. An AAR was conducted once the officers returned from TF 1-77's CP. The other 52d Engineer Battalion elements in the field conducted a withdrawal during Phase C of the exercise. Using the results of the reconnaissance conducted during Phase B, the battalion prepared obstacle plans to support the division's withdrawal operation. The plans were evaluated as a go by evaluators from the 25th Engineer Battalion staff and, concurrently, the battalion conducted a night withdrawal. The battalion CP was attacked by OPFOR (a platoon provided and evaluated by 1-2 Armor) early the next day. The CP reacted quickly IAW its plan to fight off the attack. The rest of Phase D was spent performing an engineer reconnaissance and preparing plans to support a counterattack by the division's reserve brigade. Although the exercise's pace continued to be hectic, individual soldiers and sections and squads experienced periods when they were not participating actively in the exercise play or sleeping. NCOs used these slack periods to identify collective and soldier task training needs and to present training. Phase E. The battalion was ordered to be prepared to support offensive operations at the completion of the division's successful defense. An engineer reconnaissance was conducted to support the operation. The division issued an OPORD at 1800 for deliberate attack at 2200 the next day (Day Five). A battalion OPORD was issued and breaching plans were developed to support the division's plan. Alpha Company continued to support TF 1- 77's FTX. The remaining units began a night land navigation exercise which was planned prior to the CFX. The battalion commander decided that soldiers would be evaluated on a critical common task at each checkpoint as part of his commander's evaluation program (CEP). Figure 4-21 shows training conducted between 2200 and 0100. Figure 4-21. Sample training conducted during Phase E. The battalion S3 issued a list of grid coordinates that each section NCO would require his junior NCOs and enlisted soldiers to navigate within a specified time limit. SFC Fast, the battalion S2 NCOIC, divided the coordinates between the sergeant and the two specialists in his section. To start the exercise, he had the sergeant provide navigation for the S2 section. As the section moved about, the section NCOIC pointed out to the two specialists where they were on the map and how to use landmarks to determine the location. At each stop, the section dismounted and SFC Fast conducted a quick AAR. After the last point was found, the section returned to the battalion CP. During Day Four, Alpha Company's officers developed obstacle plans to support TF 1-77's defensive operations http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (24 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution and participated in the TF 1-77's FCXs. The NCO leaders took charge of the units and conducted engineer reconnaissance to support the defense. Phase F. After stand-to at 0630 the next morning, the battalion commander ended the CFX. At that time the soldiers took down the CP under the supervision of their NCOs. NCO leaders conducted a thorough inspection to ensure all blank ammunition was turned in and all sensitive items were accounted for. The battalion S3 conducted a convoy briefing prior to the return to garrison. The battalion elements redeployed to garrison and began post operations checks. The 52d Battalion's TSOP contained an appendix which outlined the three-day process associated with field deployments. Unit integrity was maintained throughout the post operations period. SFC Smith was the NCOIC of the S1 section and the PSG for the platoon containing all of the battalion staff. He instructed his section leaders to maintain squad integrity throughout the post operations period. During the first day SSG Jay, the S4 section leader, assembled his soldiers in the supply room for weapons cleaning. He coached them on cleaning their weapons and questioned them about the weapons' various characteristics. SSG Jay recalled that when the enemy attacked the CP with chemical agents, no one had informed the S4 van. Since he had forgotten to mention this during the AAR which followed the attack, he told the PSG when he came by to check on the weapons cleaning. The PSG wrote this point down so that he could discuss it with the 1SG later that afternoon. After the first day of post operations activities, the senior NCOs met with the CSM. They discussed soldier training weaknesses that were identified during the AARs and recorded in their leader books. Some weaknesses had not been corrected during the exercise due to lack of time. Those soldier weaknesses not retrained were rescheduled to be trained later. While the battalion redeployed to garrison, Alpha Company's platoons were attached to TF 1-77's companies and teams for company-level lane training. The training lanes for Movement to Contact and Defense contained precoordinated situations which required the engineer platoons to execute their battle drills. Following is an example of the training received by 1st Platoon, Alpha Company, while it supported Team A, TF 1-77. Team A, conducting Movement to Contact encountered a small enemy force defending a large minefield. The engineer platoon leader rapidly assessed the situation, developed a plan to create three assault vehicle lanes, and assigned three squads the mission. In addition, he coordinated for artillery-delivered smoke to conceal the squads. Once the mission was assigned, each squad executed Drill #2: Create an Assault Lane in a Threat Surface Laid Minefield with Hand Emplaced Explosives, from ARTEP 5-145-Drill. Supporting leader and soldier tasks were-- ● Supervise minefield breaching operations. ● Use and maintain demolition equipment. ● Construct a nonelectric initiating and or detonating assembly. ● Prime explosives nonelectrically. ● Prime explosives with detonating cord. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (25 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution All materials listed in the battle drill were available except the explosive charges. These were replaced by training aids. A PSG from the 25th Engineer Battalion evaluated 1st Squad's performance and held an AAR after the drill was completed. SSG Brady, the first squad leader, correctly executed the troop leading procedures and moved his squad to the job site. The squad worked quickly and effectively. It executed the drill in fourteen minutes, a minute faster than the drill standard. At the AAR, the evaluator emphasized how well 1st Squad executed the drill. SSG Brady recorded the results of the lane training evaluation in his leader book during the AAR. Phase G. During the next three days, every engineer platoon was evaluated on its ability to conduct operations in support of offensive and defensive operations. The engineer company commander, Captain (CPT) Mann, was pleased with his platoons' performance. He was also impressed with the training benefit obtained through lane training. He made a note to set up platoon lanes during the company's next FTX. Phase H. The company redeployed to garrison eight days after it was alerted. CPT Mann had his company conduct post operations IAW the battalion's SOP. He also emphasized that all leaders must reassess their elements' training proficiency based on the exercise results. The company leaders discussed their new assessments and methods for correcting weaknesses during the next weekly company training meeting. 1ST FSB FTX (EXEVAL) Pre-FTX During the battalion QTB, the 1st FSB commander presented a plan for a battalion external evaluation (EXEVAL) in conjunction with 1st Brigade's CPX. The 1st FSB had been assigned the mission to conduct CSS operations (supply, maintenance, medical) to support the CPX and TF 1-77's FTX. The FSB commander considered this an excellent opportunity to assess the results of the battalion's training efforts since the last EXEVAL. Therefore, he decided to deploy the battalion on an FTX and support the entire brigade from the BSA. The 2d FSB was prepared to provide evaluators if the EXEVAL was approved. The DISCOM and division commanders agreed with the plan and approved the necessary resources. The FSB S3 and maintenance operations officer finished planning the FTX. Their training and evaluation plan focused on the assessed weaknesses shown in Figure 4-22. The FSB commander decided to focus on-- ● Deploy to combat area of operations. ● Conduct CSS operations (emphasize supporting forward). ● Direct response to BSA threat. ● Casualty evacuation. The FTX was planned and refined throughout the short-range and near-term planning periods. Some of the key points of planning for the FTX follow. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (26 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution The FSB commander and his staff coordinated with the 1st Brigade to ensure they knew all support requirements. They discussed the completed EXEVAL plan with the brigade commander. The brigade commander requested additional emphasis on refueling operations and combat lifesaver (CLS) training. He wanted to ensure refueling operations were conducted as close as possible to the combat trains and under realistic conditions.Treatment and evacuation of casualties had been problems in past exercises. They were also weaknesses for the FSB. The FSB's S3 ensured that the 1st Brigade's training needs were emphasized during the EXEVAL. The FSB commander also coordinated and integrated his plan with the main support battalion (MSB). The FSB commander used as a planning tool a matrix to depict his execution and evaluation plan (Figure 4-23). The missions and tasks were derived from the applicable MTP (ARTEP 63-005-MTP). The FSB commander briefed his subordinate leaders on the tasks and the training objectives for the FTX. He explained how the battalion could get the most out of the FTX through multiechelon training. Company commanders, platoon leaders, and key NCOs used the battalion's execution and evaluation plan, the results from the last EXEVAL, and subordinate leader input to develop situational training exercises for their units. Figure 4-22. Sample FSB assessment. Figure 4-23. 1st FSB execution and evaluation plan. These STXs would allow the leader the flexibility to conduct training when opportunities became available. The commanders also planned time for the squad leaders to conduct prerequisite training while the officers and senior NCOs were involved in the 1st Brigade CPX. Platoon sergeants briefed their squad leaders on all requirements. Squad leaders used the platoon guidance to prepare prerequisite training on deficient tasks while the officers were involved in the CPX (Figure 4-24). A sample of one squad's training prior to the FTX follows. SSG Cruz of the Class III section was told that the squad would use trailer transfer operations to facilitate the movement of fuel in support of 1st Brigade. He knew that his drivers would be required to haul 5,000-gallon tankers that were not their own. He was therefore particularly concerned for the safety of the drivers. His training plan would focus on quick and accurate before-operations PMCS of the trailers. By focusing on this aspect, his section would be able to transfer fuel tankers quickly and safely. SSG Cruz used command maintenance to evaluate his soldiers' proficiency. He scheduled refresher training for his soldiers during his sergeants' time training. He required each soldier to correctly perform before-operations checks on a 5,000 gallon tanker. He also took the soldiers on a TEWT to several locations he had picked out the week prior when he was preparing for the training. At each location, he pointed out how the first tanker should be positioned, how subsequent tankers would be parked, and how to maneuver the tankers in and out of the transfer points. SSG Cruz emphasized METT-T and safety throughout this training. Figure 4-24. Sample prerequisite training. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (27 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution SSG Cruz then used a nearby field to coach the squad through the transfer. Again he emphasized safety throughout the training. After each iteration, he gathered the squad together and conducted an AAR. Specialist Kim recommended adding the trailer transfer operation to the company's SOP. SSG Cruz noted in his leader book to pass the recommendation to the platoon leader. The soldiers completed the training and returned to the motor pool under the supervision of the assistant squad leader. SSG Cruz started the squad on its recovery operations, found the platoon leader, and discussed the SOP change with him. SSG Cruz planned additional training during the week prior to the FTX. He developed a lane with three transfer points over various terrain conditions. The platoon leader and PSG evaluated the squad's performance. As each driver completed the lane, the evaluator conducted an AAR. One driver and assistant driver had difficulty with a hilly part of the lane. SSG Cruz accompanied them to another training site and retrained them after releasing the other soldiers. FTX The following is a by-phase discussion of execution of the FSB FTX (Figure 4-23). Highlighted events under each phase for different units show the linkage of collective and soldier tasks. The battalion developed pre-execution checks prior to the FTX. This detailed list ensured the battalion was prepared to execute the FTX. Figure 4-25 is a sample of the battalion's pre-execution checklist. Figure 4-25. Sample pre-execution checklist. Phase A. The battalion started the FTX with an alert to test the unit's readiness SOP. After detailed precombat checks were completed, the FSB deployed to the assembly area. Figure 4-26 is a sample of the FSB units' actions prior to deployment. Squad leaders briefed their soldiers on the mission, and what was expected. They questioned their soldiers in detail about their responsibilities and ensured they understood. The following is an example of one squad conducting precombat checks. Sergeant (SGT) Duke discovered Private (PVT) Ames was in the wrong uniform because he did not have on his field jacket nor had he drawn his protective mask and carrier. He made an on-the-spot correction by having PVT Ames take his field jacket out of his duffel bag and put it on. He then sent PVT Ames to the NBC room to draw his protective mask and rejoin the squad. Some additional precombat checks were-- Figure 4-26. Predeployment activities. ● Accountability of personnel. ● Accountability and serviceability of weapons and sensitive items. ● Status of vehicles and trailers. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (28 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution ● Soldiers briefed and knowledgeable about the mission. ● Soldiers and equipment camouflaged and inspected; for example, weapons, load bearing equipment (LBE), identification (ID) tags, and meal cards. Before the battalion moved to the field, the chain of command conducted AARs. All soldiers were involved and the feedback was noted. The battalion then deployed to the AA. The 2d FSB evaluated the 1st FSB's road march to the AA. The 1st FSB occupied the AA, established perimeter defenses, and began conducting CSS operations. Figure 4-27 shows tasks the battalion conducted. Figure 4-27. FSB road march and assembly area activities. AARs were conducted after the last battalion unit occupied its assembly area. Later on Day One, the FSB received the 1st Brigade's OPORD for deploying into sector. The battalion was required to establish the BSA prior to 0400 the next day. While the battalion staff developed an OPORD, the battalion's subordinate units continued to provide CSS support to the brigade. NCOs took advantage of slow periods by presenting opportunity training to refresh soldiers' memories on tasks, such as Construct Individual Fighting Position; Practice Noise, Light, and Litter Discipline; and Construct a Range Card. To replicate wartime conditions, the FSB commander ordered all movement off primary roads and within 1 kilometer of the BSA be conducted in black-out drive. The commander emphasized safety during the establishment of the BSA. He also emphasized constant leader involvement during black-out drive operations. Subordinate commanders emphasized safety when issuing their OPORDs. Phase B. The FSB began moving forward to the BSA site at 2000. The FSB's occupation of the BSA went well. The 2d FSB OCs evaluated this task as a go. The FSB started its proactive CSS operations in support of 1st Brigade. Selected NCOs supervised the construction of defensive positions immediately after stand-to on Day Two. SGT Smothers of the maintenance company was responsible for preparing fighting positions in his squad's sector during the occupation of the AA. He ensured-- ● Observation posts (OPs) and listening posts (LPs) were manned. ● Fighting positions were properly prepared and camouflaged. ● Early warning devices were emplaced. ● Sector sketches and range cards were completed and accurate. This task required him to carefully manage his squad. The 1st Brigade had already evacuated a piece of equipment for repair. Intelligence on the enemy situation indicated a high probability of being attacked. SGT Smothers had half his section prepare the defense as the other half worked on customer equipment. During this period, an OPFOR patrol was sighted and a BSA alert went out to man the fighting positions. As the soldiers ran to occupy their fighting positions, confusion arose as to who was to go to which position. SGT Smothers noted also that there were not enough fighting positions. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (29 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution The alert status was reduced and an AAR was conducted. The soldiers and SGT Smothers were able to revise their defensive position's occupation plan. As this phase of training progressed, SGT Smothers conducted several rehearsals to reinforce the plan's execution. Phase C. During Phase C, the FSB continued to conduct CSS operations. OPFOR attacks occurred on Days Three, Four, and Five. A MASCAL exercise was conducted on Day Six. A sample of some of the training that occurred follows. The FSB commander positioned his 5,000 gallon tankers halfway between the maneuver battalion combat trains and the BSA at forward tactical refueling points IAW METT-T. This facilitated fast refueling of the TF. The plan included the tankers moving when the combat trains moved. Logisticians tracked the battle, forecasting Class III and coordinating delivery from the MSB. The delivery of Class III was conducted by tanker transfer. These actions greatly improved the supported units' ability to refuel, and reduced the signature of the BSA. The BSA was attacked three times during the FTX. The reaction force (composed of all the tenant elements of the BSA) and the MP platoon reacted too slowly to defeat the initial attack. The AAR held following the attack revealed the majority of BSA personnel had not heard the alert signal. During the BSA AAR, the FSB commander concluded critical information, such as size and direction of attack, was disseminated too slowly. The AAR identified these additional problems: ● The LPS and OPs were not properly emplaced or camouflaged and did not have back-up communications. ● The TOC was not passing along threat levels. ● The communications wires were not properly laid. After the attack, wire from the TOC to the companies was found cut where it crossed a road. ● There was no messenger plan in case of communications failure. ● There was no audio or visual alternate signal. ● Targeting and fire support were poor. ● The defensive plan did not include vehicle mounted machine guns. After the AAR, the FSB commander and CSM held leader classes to correct the problems. After the classes, the NCO and officer leaders conducted a rehearsal of BSA defense on a sand table. Subsequently the leaders returned to their units to retrain their soldiers. The FSB commander scheduled a walk-through with the entire BSA. After several rehearsals, the commander assessed that the BSA was ready to conduct the task under combat conditions. The BSA was attacked twice more during the FTX with little loss of soldiers, material, or support to the 1st Brigade. An AAR was conducted after each attack and minor shortcomings were corrected. An important aspect of this training is that BSA personnel http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (30 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution continued to provide CSS operations. Figure 4-28 shows unit activities while defending the BSA. Figure 4-28. Unit activities in BSA. Phase D. During Phase D, a MASCAL was scheduled by the FSB and 1st Brigade. It was conducted in conjunction with Team A, TF 1-77's, assault STX. The medical company had conducted prerequisite training prior to the FSB FTX. CPT Thomas, commander of Company C, knew the MASCAL exercise would be the most difficult part of the exercise for her unit. She also knew a MASCAL situation in a realistic combat environment would require additional support from external assets. Further, her soldiers needed to know how to coordinate for such support. CPT Thomas had her ambulance platoon establish an ambulance exchange point (AXP) to speed up casualty evacuation. The AXP allowed the exchange of a fresh FSB ambulance loaded with medical supplies with an ambulance carrying casualties from the supported unit. The exchange was at a transfer point typically halfway between the FSB and battalion aid station IAW METT-T. This significantly decreased evacuation time because supported units did not have to travel to the BSA to evacuate patients. The AXP can move easily and is responsive to changing situations on the battlefield. CPT Thomas had read in the Center for Army Lessons Learned (CALL) bulletins that CTCs had successfully used this approach; therefore, she trained her unit extensively on this technique. She also conducted prior coordination and training with the supported units. Dr. (CPT) Lance, a physician with C Company, 1st FSB, used a color-coded triage technique during the FTX. This involved marking areas under the camouflage nets with multicolored signs that indicated the level of triage of casualties; for example; green for routine and red for immediate. At night the triage areas were marked with colored chemical lights. This technique expedited casualty evacuation and treatment and was essential to the execution of the MASCAL exercise. The treatment platoon's training objectives for the FTX were planned during the near-term planning phase. The platoons were evaluated on the following tasks during the MASCAL exercise: ● Conduct triage. ● Provide initial medical service. ● Provide ground ambulance support. ● Dispatch ambulances to supported units. ● Immobilize fractures or suspected fractures. ● Control hemorrhage. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (31 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution ● Treat environment injuries. ● Treat burns. ● Perform examinations. ● Treat enemy prisoners or war (EPWs) IAW Geneva Conventions. The MASCAL exercise stressed the medical system to near collapse; however, the MASCAL AARs indicated the medical company had responded well. The movement of casualties was conducted superbly. Problems did arise in the triage system. The AARs revealed that the front line medical personnel and the medical company were marking casualties differently. The company commander noted this for future coordination. Phase E. During Phase E, many training events focused on platoon, section, squad, team, and crew execution of critical collective tasks. The 2d FSB provided evaluators for the different events, while 1-2 Armor provided the OPFOR. An example training event was a lane developed to test the convoys' reaction to an ambush. SFC Ramon's convoy was returning to the BSA after picking up a load of simulated special weapons. He was advised by radio that a bridge was out on his planned route. The TOC provided him with an alternate route, which led his convoy through the ambush site. The lead truck encountered a road block after rounding a sharp curve. The convoy reacted to the ambush using the drill, Convoy Reacts to Road Blocked (ARTEP 55-188-30- DRILL). SFC Ramon had trained his platoon to execute the drill as part of prerequisite training for the FTX. The convoy reacted quickly and accurately to the ambush. Only minor mistakes were raised during the AAR. A platoon-sized OPFOR attack on the BSA occurred during Day Eight of the exercise. During the attack, the OPFOR employed smoke. An OC caused one of the BSA's NBC alarms to activate. Soldiers masked and relayed the warning using hand and arm signals, and the appropriate vehicle horn signals. Once the attack was repelled, the units' leaders conducted unmasking procedures. The AAR that followed identified several problem areas, which were later corrected. The FSB continued to support TF 1-77's FTX until the exercise ended. Prior to redeploying to garrison, the FSB accomplished the actions shown in Figure 4-29. SFC Wilson, Recovery Section Leader, B Company, was responsible for providing recovery assistance to supported units with NMC or damaged equipment. He prepared the section for the upcoming recovery and evacuation mission by-- ● Organizing the recovery team. ● Briefing the recovery team on the concept of operation. ● Identifying resource requirements. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (32 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Execution ● Requesting a communications relay site to facilitate C2. Figure 4-29. FSB actions prior to redeployment. The recovery section assisted TF 1-77 and the FSB in moving equipment from maintenance collection points. The recovery operation was efficiently conducted and resulted in the rapid repair of NMC equipment. During this phase, the FSB began to move equipment and supplies to the rear. By conducting some movement of equipment and operational loads early, the FSB was prepared to assist TF 1-77's movement back to garrison. This also gave rear elements an opportunity to start repairing NMC equipment. Phase F. The BSA coordinated and supported the redeployment of TF 1-77. The FSB operations officer ensured medical, fuel, and recovery assets were in position to support the movement. The BSA stayed in position until TF 1-77 closed into its motor pool. The FSB commander saw the movement of the FSB to garrison as a training opportunity. He directed the redeployment to be conducted as a tactical operation until all elements had closed in garrison. He also directed the assistant S3 to control the movement. Once in garrison, the battalion started its recovery process. The unit SOP established a three-step recovery process of accountability, maintenance, and retraining. This process is an extension of precombat checks and, once completed, signifies the end of the exercise. However, the FSB recovery process is longer and more difficult for CSS than for combat arms and CS units; the FSB must work on its own equipment as well as the supported units' equipment. The FSB commander conducted an AAR and prepared his assessment. The exercise provided valuable data on the battalion's strengths and weaknesses. The new assessment provided the basis for the next short-range plan. All training must be evaluated. This forms the base from which leaders assess proficiency. Leaders must record the results and use them to adjust training requirements. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_5.htm (33 of 33) [1/11/2002 3:17:13 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 5 Assessment RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions CHAPTER 5 ASSESSMENT The truth is sought, regardless of whether pleasant or unpleasant. LTG Leslie J. McNair Training assessment is an integral part of the training management cycle. Information obtained as a result of a thoroughly planned evaluation provides the basis for the commander's and leader's assessment of his unit and training program. Throughout, leaders benefit through the leadership assessment and development program that occurs concurrently with the training evaluation and assessment process. Ultimately, adjustments are made in resources, personnel, training methods, and other areas to refine the training program focus. UNIT ASSESSMENT Leaders use evaluations and other feedback to assess soldier, leader, and unit proficiency. The analysis of the information provided through evaluations is the key mechanism that commanders use for their assessment. Additionally, commanders can adjust priorities and resources as necessary to synchronize all unit functions. To assess training proficiency and selected tasks, commanders-- ● Select type of evaluation. ● Develop an evaluation plan. ● Conduct evaluation of training. ● Conduct after action reviews. ● Provide feedback to chain of command. Figure 5-1 lists important sources of information that assist leaders in assessing their units' training status and http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_6.htm (1 of 10) [1/11/2002 3:17:17 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 5 Assessment ability to accomplish wartime missions. Figure 5-1. EVALUATION The evaluation process is continuous. Therefore, evaluations must be planned for all training and considered as a way of life in the unit. Training evaluation is integral to training management and is conducted by leaders at every level. Evaluation of training measures the demonstrated ability of soldiers, leaders, and units to perform a task against Army standards. It is a snapshot, at a given time, on whether or not the task was conducted to standard under prescribed conditions. Each training event is evaluated during training execution. Planning for training must include resources (such as leader time, prerequisite training, evaluators, and equipment) to facilitate evaluation. The use of evaluation data can have a strong positive (or negative) effect on command climate of the unit. Evaluations are used to-- ● Provide feedback on training proficiency to those participating in the training event (using AARs). ● Assess METL task proficiency. ● Develop lessons learned for distribution throughout the command, and the Army, when applicable. ● Shape future training plans. ● Enhance leader development. TYPES OF EVALUATIONS Evaluations can be informal or formal and internal or external. Key points for each type of evaluation follow. Informal evaluations are most commonly used at battalion level and below. They are-- ● Conducted by all leaders in chain of command. ● Continuous. ● Used to provide immediate feedback on training proficiency. Formal evaluations are usually scheduled on the long-range and short-range calendars. These include ARTEP evaluations, EIB, EFMB, and TVIs. They are-- http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_6.htm (2 of 10) [1/11/2002 3:17:17 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 5 Assessment ● Sometimes unannounced, such as an EDRE. ● Normally highlighted during QTBs and YTBs. ● Resourced with dedicated evaluators or OCs. Internal evaluations are planned, resourced, and conducted by the unit undergoing the evaluation. External evaluations are also planned and resourced. However, they are normally conducted by the headquarters two levels above the unit being evaluated. For example, division evaluates battalions; brigade evaluates companies; battalion evaluates platoons; and company evaluates sections, squads, teams, or crews. These evaluations can be combined to meet the particular needs of the units or soldiers being evaluated. Figure 5-2 shows the application of each combination. Regardless of the type of evaluation, leaders must be present at all training--personally supervising and evaluating. PLANNING FOR EVALUATIONS The evaluation of collective training is critical to assessing a unit's capability to perform its METL tasks. For evaluation to be effective, it must be thoroughly planned and rigorously executed. Thus, leaders must begin the planning process as early as possible to provide an accurate evaluation. RC commanders may request assistance from Maneuver Training Commands, partnership or affiliated units, CAPSTONE aligned units, or readiness groups to assist in the planning, preparation, and evaluation of training. However, the RC chain of command remains responsible for the evaluation. Figure 5-2. Use of types of evaluations The chain of command needs the following information to facilitate long-range evaluation planning: ● Type of exercise (battalion FTX, company FTX, company STX, TEWT). ● Dates of exercise. ● Type of evaluation (formal, informal, internal, external, or combination). ● Support requirements (internal and external). ● Coordination for external evaluation support. More detailed evaluation planning occurs as time draws near. To continue effective short range planning, the commander and key leaders develop and provide the following information: ● Commander's intent and focus for the exercise. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_6.htm (3 of 10) [1/11/2002 3:17:17 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 5 Assessment ● Pre-execution checklist. ● Level of evaluation; for example, down to platoon level. ● Dates for training the evaluators. ● Plan for conduct of evaluator training. The commander and key leaders also provide a completed evaluation and control plan. The plan contains-- ● Intent of the exercise and the evaluation. ● Evaluation procedures. ● Exercise scenario. ● Training objectives. ● Guidance on conduct of AARs. ● Resource guidance. ● Required coordination. ● Discussion on evaluators' role in safety. ● Rules of engagement. ● References (SMs, FMs, MTPs, and SOPs (including those of slice units)). ● Evaluation checklists (to include T&EOs). Refinement of the evaluation plan continues up to execution. This accommodates changes made to the events and evaluation plan and to resource allocations. EVALUATORS Evaluators must be highly qualified to enhance the training experience for the evaluated unit by providing valid, credible observations. The evaluator should be equal or senior in rank to the leader being evaluated. Ideally, the evaluator should have held the position himself, as it lends credibility to his role. Leaders and soldiers learn from the evaluator. Likewise, the evaluator learns by observing the unit. Listed below are some basic rules for the evaluator: ● Be trained and rehearsed. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_6.htm (4 of 10) [1/11/2002 3:17:17 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 5 Assessment ● Know the terrain. (Conduct reconnaissance when possible.) ● Don't be argumentative. ● Identify strengths as well as weaknesses. ● Patiently observe all actions of a unit. (Don't jump to conclusions.) ● Always use the chain of command. (Don't take command of the unit.) ● Be prepared to coach unit leaders. ● Be flexible; base evaluation on unit's reaction to the tactical situation, not on personal knowledge of the preplanned scenario. ● Do what the soldiers do. Experience the same conditions as the evaluated unit. ● Know OPFOR training objectives. Evaluation planners should use an evaluator worksheet, such as the example in Figure 5-3. This helps determine the best evaluator organization. The task evaluation matrix at Figure 5-4 aids in this determination. Figure 5-3. Figure 5-4. Task evaluation matrix. Evaluators must be trained prior to conducting evaluations. This ensures they are technically and tactically competent and understand their responsibilities during evaluations. Training should include the elements listed in Figure 5-5. Figure 5-5. AFTER ACTION REVIEW The AAR is a structured review process that allows training participants to discover for themselves what happened, why it happened, and how it can be done better. AARs-- ● Focus on the training objectives. (Was the mission accomplished?) ● Emphasize meeting Army standards. (AARs do not determine winners or losers.) ● Encourage soldiers to discover important lessons from the training event. (They are not a critique.) http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_6.htm (5 of 10) [1/11/2002 3:17:17 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 5 Assessment ● Allow a large number of soldiers and leaders (including OPFOR) to participate so that lessons learned can be shared. The AAR consists of four parts: ● Review what was supposed to happen (training plan). ● Establish what happened (to include OPFOR point of view). ● Determine what was right or wrong with what happened. ● Determine how the task should be done differently next time. The AAR is often used as a leader development technique to develop leaders throughout the entire chain of command. Leaders may use the AAR for an extended professional discussion with subordinate leaders. At completion of the exercise, a final AAR is conducted. It is a meeting with the evaluators or OCs, OPFOR, and unit leaders to review the training just conducted. Training weaknesses identified during AARs must be included in future planned training. Detailed discussion of AARs is at Appendix G. TRAINING ASSESSMENT After the conduct of the final AAR, the commander reviews the evaluation and AAR results to assess his unit's training proficiency. The commander's assessment of training proficiency on mission essential task list tasks is rated as either "T" (trained), "P" (needs practice), or "U" (untrained). As discussed in Chapter 3, those battlefield operating systems that do not apply to the task are left blank on the commander's assessment worksheet. NCOs may use a leader book in assessing squad, crew, and soldier proficiency (see Appendix B). The commander uses the assessment worksheet to record training weaknesses. This information helps to identify a strategy to improve or sustain training proficiency. Other worksheet formats which identify subunits instead of BOS may be used for the commander's assessment (see Figure 3-15). Regardless of its format, the worksheet is only a tool for the commander to plan training. EXAMPLE TRAINING ASSESSMENTS To illustrate the concept of training evaluations and assessments, the following examples from the Task Force 1-77 FTX, 52d Engineer Battalion CFX, and 1st FSB FTX (EXEVAL) are provided. TF 1-77 FTX Evaluations At the completion of TF 1-77's FTX, evaluators provided written evaluations on the tasks performed. Evaluation results were recorded on the T&EOs from the applicable MTP. T&EO extracts from the TF, Team A, and 1st Platoon, Team A, are at Figures 5-6, 5-7 and 5-8. An extract from the squad leader's evaluation of his soldiers' http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_6.htm (6 of 10) [1/11/2002 3:17:17 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 5 Assessment proficiency in the task Prepare a Fighting Position is at Figure 5-9. After Action Renews The leaders used the AARs as their final piece of information focusing on what happened, why it happened, and how to do it better. Through the AAR process, the chief OC was able to have unit members describe what happened in their own words and from their own points of view. This helped evaluators and unit leaders to focus on whether or not the mission was accomplished so that leaders could link lessons learned to subsequent training. As a result of the AARs, the TF 1-77 commander discovered the unit had improved considerably on the tasks Movement by Road/Rail and Defend. However, the unit still had problems with the task Assault during the company STXs. The AAR revealed that coordination and adjustment of artillery and mortar fire slowed the assault, making the indirect fire ineffective. It also revealed that the slow commitment of engineer assets resulted in the companies spending too much time exposed to enemy fire at enemy obstacles. Much better coordination and integration of the slice units were needed during planning and preparation. This type of feedback from the AARs, coupled with an after action report, provided information the TF 1-77 commander needed-- ● To determine his assessment of each mission essential task. ● To develop a training strategy for future training. ● To plan and conduct additional training. Commander's Training Assessment Based on the training evaluation results, AARs, and their own personal observations, the TF and Team A commanders assessed their units on each METL task trained. Extracts of those assessment are at Figures 5-10 and 5-11. Figure 5-6. TF 1-77 training evaluation extract. Figure 5-7. Team A training evaluation extract. Figure 5-8. 1st Platoon, Team A, training evaluation extract. Figure 5-9. Squad training evaluation extract. Figure 5-10. TF 1-77 commander's training assessment extract. Figure 5-11. Team A commander's training assessment extract. 52D ENGINEER BATTALION CFX http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_6.htm (7 of 10) [1/11/2002 3:17:17 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 5 Assessment Evaluations The 52D Engineer Battalion CFX provided valuable training feedback to the battalion leaders. The exercise did not involve a higher headquarter's directed external evaluation; however, the battalion commander wanted help in evaluating the battalion CP operation. He requested and received evaluators from the 25th Engineer Battalion. To evaluate selected operations conducted by A Company, the battalion S3 planned and conducted evaluator training and assisted the OCs from the 25th Engineer Battalion in preparing evaluation packets. The evaluators prepared evaluation packets using ARTEP 5-145-MTP, ARTEP 5-145-31-MTP, ARTEP 5-145-11- MTP, and ARTEP 5-145-Drills. The battalion CP evaluators focused on the battalion staff tasks which had been designated as battle tasks. A Company was evaluated on its ability to construct hasty obstacles and conduct obstacle breaching operations. Figures 5-12, 5-13, and 5-14 are examples of the completed T&EOs that the evaluators provided. After Action Reviews Discussions during the offensive planning AAR revealed that the battalion's logistical planning was inadequate; it did not allow for full support of the battalion's mobility operations. The battalion S4 pointed out that the companies had submitted their logistical requirements too late. The S4 section could not obtain the supplies prior to the offensive. The evaluator from the 25th Engineer Battalion suggested the S4 could reduce the impact of late requests by anticipating the increased requirements for Class III and breaching materials needed to support battalion operations. Obstacle reporting was a weakness discovered during the AAR conducted after the division's offensive operations. Companies and platoons moving forward in the offense had not reported some existing enemy and friendly obstacles. This caused severe problems for two division CSS units as they moved forward to their next position. They had to detour to avoid the obstacles and reached their new position several hours late. The loss of the CSS units' support for the additional time could have been avoided had the engineer units reported the obstacles. Commander's Training Assessment From the evaluators' comments, discussions during the AARs, and his own observations, the battalion commander assessed the training status of the unit. The results of the offensive phase of the exercise caused him to assess the battalion as "P" on two METL tasks, Conduct Logistical Operations and Report Obstacle Information. Figure 5-12. 52d Engineer Battalion training evaluation extract. Figure 5-13. Figure 5-14. 1st Squad, 1st Platoon, A Company, training extract. Figure 5-15. 52d Engineer Battalion commander's training assessment. Figure 5-15 shows the battalion commander's revised assessment of the four METL tasks rated "P" prior to the http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_6.htm (8 of 10) [1/11/2002 3:17:17 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 5 Assessment CFX. It also shows his strategy for correcting weaknesses and sustaining strengths. 1ST FSB FTX (EXEVAL) Evaluations At the completion of 1st FSB's FTX (EXEVAL), evaluators provided written evaluations on the tasks performed. Extracts from evaluations of the battalion task Direct Response Against BSA Threat and the related company task Defend Company Sector are at Figures 5-16 and 5-1. After Action Reviews The FSB commander used the AAR as the final piece of information. He focused on how well the tasks were performed and what the unit needed to do for future training. Through the AAR process, the chief OC heard soldiers describe what happened in their own words and from their own points of view. Following are comments made by unit members. PVT Romero, legal clerk, HHD, 1ST FSB, stated that he had learned the importance of using the SALUTE format (size, activity, location, uniform, time, and equipment) to send a spot report and of properly camouflaging himself, his equipment, and position. He and another soldier were assigned LP and OP duty prior to one of the attacks. The enemy detected PVT Romero and was able to get very close to the perimeter of the BSA. When he did see the enemy, he was unable to send a clear and concise warning to the BSA. Immediately afterward, PVT Romero received retraining on sending a report and camouflaging properly. He recommended that the unit conduct refresher training on basic combat survival skills for all soldiers prior to field training. PFC Schmitt, supply specialist, A Company, 1st FSB, stated that his training with the reaction force had increased his tactical competence. He felt that the movement techniques he had learned were key to driving off the OPFOR during the FTX. He recommended that MILES be used more on the next FTX to enhance the training. Figure 5-16. Figure 5-17. A Company, 1st FSB training evaluation extract. SFC Mills, platoon sergeant, B Company, said that the predeployment training the battalion had accomplished prior to the FTX was key to the successful deployment to the field. He felt that his soldiers had performed extremely well on uploading supplies and equipment and had gained confidence in their ability to deploy. SFC Mills also noted that the route to the BSA had only two artillery targets. He thought more targets were needed for the length of route. The S3 noted this weakness for future planning. PVT Johnson, medic, C Company, 1st FSB, stated that his land navigation training had helped him in accomplishing his mission. He had received a "real world" mission to evacuate a soldier with a broken leg and had only grid coordinates of the location. His training allowed him to quickly navigate to the location, render aid, and evacuate the patient back to the BSA. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_6.htm (9 of 10) [1/11/2002 3:17:17 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 5 Assessment From the AAR feedback, the FSB commander found that the unit had improved considerably on the following tasks: ● Deploy to a combat area of operations. ● Conduct logistical operations. ● Casualty evacuation. However, the unit still had problems responding to a threat to the BSA. The AAR revealed that many soldiers needed refresher training on basic combat tasks. The unit performed extremely well on these tasks during last year's FTX but had conducted little sustainment training since. Many new soldiers were assigned to the battalion since that FTX and needed initial training. The FSB commander had considered the unit trained on basic combat skills and therefore had not emphasized sustainment training to subordinate leaders. Commander's Training Assessment Feedback (such as above) from the AAR, coupled with the evaluation result, provided information the FSB commander needed to complete his training assessment and develop a plan for corrective actions. After assessing the unit's level of proficiency on METL tasks, he developed a training plan to emphasize the following: ● Basic combat skills--refresher training. ● Casualty evacuation--sustainment training. ● Direct response to BSA threat--refresher training. ● Deploy to combat area of operations--sustainment training. Figure 5-18. 1st FSB commander's training assessment extract. From the training evaluation results, AARs, and his own personal observations, the FSB commander assessed his unit on each METL task as it related to the BOS (Figure 5-18). The commander's assessment is not the end of training. It is the link that ties the evaluation of training to the planning of future training. Figure 5-19. Training Management Cycle. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_6.htm (10 of 10) [1/11/2002 3:17:17 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions APPENDIX A EXAMPLE TRAINING DOCUMENTS This appendix provides example training documents; their formats and contents may be used as guides when developing training documents. These documents also serve as source documents for most of the training examples used throughout this field manual. The training-related information and documents are for a notional division (the 52d Inf Div (Mech)), selected subordinate units, and the 313th Inf Bde (Mech) (RC), which is a round-out brigade to the 52d Inf Div. The 52d Inf Div is the force structure upon which most examples are based. A 52d Inf Div subordinate task force (TF 1-77) is the example battalion-level combat arms unit used to illustrate the training techniques and procedures. Chapters 2,3, 4 and 5 also have examples from outside the 52d Inf Div. They show how the techniques and procedures in this manual apply to RC units and to battalion and lower units assigned above division level. 52D INFANTRY DIVISION (MECH) MISSION: At D-Day, H-Hour, the 52d Infantry Division (Mech) deploys by air and sea, occupies assigned marshaling areas, organizes for combat; on order, moves to assigned assembly areas; be prepared to assume the defensive sector of another division in the assigned corps area; be prepared to conduct a counterattack and, on order, conduct offensive operations. 52D INFANTRY DIVISION (MECH) METL ● Move by Road/Rail to APOE/SPOE. ● Prepare for Combat Operations. ● Move to and Occupy an Assembly Area. ● Conduct Relief in Place. ● Conduct Area Defense. ● Conduct Counterattack. ● Conduct Movement to Contact. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (1 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents ● Conduct Hasty Attack. EXAMPLE 52D INFANTRY DIVISION TRAINING OBJECTIVE TASK: Conduct Area Defense. ARTEP 71-100-MTP, Mission Training Plan, Division Command Group and Staff. CONDITIONS: The division, as part of a corps operating in a joint and combined environment, is engaged in combat or combat is imminent. The division's tactical, main, and rear command posts have been deployed and established. Communications have been established and reports are being received from subordinate units and submitted to corps headquarters in accordance with (IAW) TSOPs. Combat operations may involve offensive, defensive, or retrograde operations. Continuous operations (day and night) are envisioned. Enemy forces are composed of armored, mechanized, air assault, and airborne forces with their associated CS, CSS, and air assets. Both forces, friendly and enemy, possess the capability to employ nuclear and chemical weapons. Enemy forces have the capability to employ biological weapons. The NBC environment is active. The enemy forces have employed chemical agents in support of specific operations and selected deep targets. They have nuclear weapons in a ready posture but have not yet employed them. They have not used their biological weapons. Electronic warfare (EW) environment is active. The enemy is employing radioelectronic combat (REC) tactics. There is air parity within the theater of operations; however, local air superiority can be achieved for short periods of time by either air force. Conflict is characterized by nonlinear operations; enemy weapons systems exist whose ranges and lethality equal or exceed US capabilities. These include numerous surveillance, target acquisition, and communication sensors. The combat environment is characterized by a continuing series of fast, chaotic battles. The division has received the intelligence summary (INTSUM) and the corps' OPLAN. STANDARDS: ● Division conducts tactical movement using formations, terrain, and fire support to minimize its vulnerability to enemy fires. ● Division retains the terrain within its assigned area of operations. ● Division defeats or destroys the attacking enemy, combined arms army, and retains the terrain within its assigned area of operations IAW the commander's intent. ● Division plans and executes a defense in depth all the way to the rear of the division's sector. ● Units position to respond to the most probable enemy courses of action and designate unit contingency plans. ● The size, composition, and positioning of the reserve are commensurate with the successful completion of contingency plans provided. ● The flank coordination, internally and externally, allows the corps and division to keep up to date with the http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (2 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents situation. ● The concept of the operation provides for an offensive counterattack to defeat attacking enemy forces and restore the forward edge of the battle area (FEBA). ● Division reviews subordinate plans to ensure integrity of the force. ● Division maintains sufficient combat power to support the commander's intent for the division's defense and counterattack missions. ● Division denies key terrain to the enemy. ● A main and supporting effort for the division's defensive plan is identified and assets are provided accordingly. ● Liaisons are established with other units as required. 1ST BRIGADE, 52D INFANTRY DIVISION (MECH) MISSION: At D-Day, H-Hour, 1st Brigade deploys by air and sea, occupies assigned marshaling areas, and organizes for combat; on order, moves to assigned assembly areas; be prepared to assume the defensive sector of another unit; be prepared to counterattack and, on order, to conduct offensive operations. 1ST BRIGADE, 52D INFANTRY DIVISION (MECH) METL ● Move by Road/Rail to APOE/SPOE. ● Prepare for Combat Operations. ● Move to and Occupy Assembly Areas. ● Conduct Relief in Place. ● Conduct Area Defense. ● Conduct Counterattack. ● Conduct Movement to Contact. ● Conduct Hasty Attack. EXAMPLE 1ST BRIGADE, 52D INFANTRY DIVISION TRAINING OBJECTIVE TASK: Conduct Area Defense. ARTEP 7-30-MTP, Mission Training Plan for the Infantry Brigade (Command Group/Staff). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (3 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents CONDITIONS: (See division conditions statement.) The brigade is in a defensive posture but is not in contact with attacking enemy units. STANDARDS: ● Brigade conducts tactical movement using formations, terrain, and fire support to minimize its vulnerability to enemy fires. ● Brigade operates within division commander's intent. ● Brigade provides all-around security. ● Brigade prevents the enemy from seizing specified terrain or crossing designated boundaries. ● Brigade defeats or forces the withdrawal of the enemy force from its assigned sector. 313TH INFANTRY BRIGADE (MECH) MISSION: At M-Day, H-Hour, 313th Infantry Brigade (Mech) mobilizes, deploys by air and sea, occupies assigned marshaling areas, and organizes for combat; on order, moves to assigned assembly areas; be prepared to defend; be prepared to counterattack and conduct offensive operations. 313TH INFANTRY BRIGADE (MECH) METL ● Move to Mobilization Station. ● Move by Road/Rail to APOE/SPOE. ● Prepare for Combat Operations. ● Move to and Occupy Assembly Areas. ● Conduct Area Defense. ● Conduct Passage of Lines. ● Conduct Counterattack. ● Conduct Movement to Contact. ● Conduct Hasty Attack. EXAMPLE 313TH BRIGADE TRAINING OBJECTIVE http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (4 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents TASK: Conduct Area Defense. ARTEP 71-3-MTP, Mission Training Plan for the Heavy Brigade Command Group and Staff. CONDITIONS: (See division conditions statement). The brigade occupies defensive positions as the division's reserve. Conducts counterattack and supports rear area operations as required. STANDARDS: ● Brigade conducts tactical movement using formations, terrain, and fire support to minimize its vulnerability to enemy fires. ● Brigade operates within division commander's intent. ● Brigade provides all-around security. ● Brigade prevents the enemy from seizing specified terrain or crossing designated boundaries. ● Brigade destroys or forces the withdrawal of the enemy force from its assigned sector. 52D DIVISION ARTILLERY (DIVARTY) MISSION: At D-Day, H-Hour, division artillery deploys by air and sea, occupies assigned marshaling areas, and organizes for combat; on order, moves to assembly area. On order, provide fire support for defensive operations; be prepared to provide supporting fires for counterattacks and offensive operations. 52D DIVARTY METL ● Move by Road/Rail to APOE/SPOE. ● Prepare for Combat Operations. ● Move Tactically. ● Coordinate Fire Support. ● Acquire Targets. ● Control Field Artillery Operations. ● Deliver Field Artillery Fires. EXAMPLE 52D DIVARTY TRAINING OBJECTIVE TASK: Coordinate Fire Support. ARTEP 6-300-1, Corps Field Artillery Section, Division Artillery and Field http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (5 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents Artillery Brigade, TACFIRE. CONDITIONS: (See division conditions statement.) DIVARTY must be prepared to accept the attachment of additional artillery assets. STANDARDS: ● Fire support concept and tasks fully support the concept of the operation and effectively employ all indirect fire assets. ● DIVARTY successfully provides fire support for deep, close, and rear operations. ● DIVARTY operations support the commander's intent. 52D INFANTRY DIVISION (MECH) SUPPORT COMMAND (DISCOM) MISSION: At D-Day, H-Hour, deploys by air and sea, occupies assigned marshaling areas, and organizes for combat; on order, moves to assembly area. On order, provide CSS support for defensive operations; be prepared to support counterattacks and offensive operations. 52D DISCOM METL ● Move by Road/Rail to APOE/SPOE. ● Prepare for Combat Operations. ● Move to and Occupy Assembly Area. ● Provide Logistics Support. ● Provide Transportation Support. ● Provide Medical Services. ● Provide Maintenance Support. ● Provide Material Management. ● Incorporate Host-Nation's Support. ● Conduct Base and Base Cluster Defense. EXAMPLE 52D DISCOM TRAINING OBJECTIVE TASK: Provide Supply Support. ARTEP 63-001-MTP, Mission Training Plan, DISCOM Headquarters. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (6 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents CONDITIONS: (See division conditions statement.) STANDARD: DISCOM provides supply support to sustain division defensive, counterattack, and offensive operations. EXAMPLE DIVISION COMMAND TRAINING GUIDANCE DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY HEADQUARTERS, 52D INFANTRY DIVISION (MECHANIZED) FT RILEY, KS 66442-5000 LCWB-CG 15 January l99X MEMORANDUM FOR SEE DISTRIBUTION SUBJECT: FY 9X Command Training Guidance 1. Commander's Training Philosophy: a. The FY 9X Command Training Guidance (CTG) is the foundation of my training philosophy. The CTG describes the division training model in detail and states the annual training objectives for the 52d Infantry Division (Mechanized). Since the CTG endorses and expands upon 10th Corps and US Army Forces Command (FORSCOM) requirements, it is the most important source document for trainers and commanders in this command. My quarterly training guidance expands or refines the CTG and adds precision to our training management; however, the annual CTG will be the basis for division quarterly guidance. b. Our overriding philosophy is to "train to fight and to win." Our training doctrine is found in FM 25-100. The mission and reality of life at FT Riley require innovative use of multiechelon training. Our most critical resource constraints are time and space, so we must take every opportunity to train as we expect to fight. The norm is to train to standard with your battle team. c. The CTG is an opportunity for me to emphasize some principles which have emerged over the past few months. Training in the 52d Inf Div (Mech) is focused on our mission to deploy rapidly, fight, sustain war fighting capability, and win the Air-Land Battle. This mission must be accomplished in an environment of new weapons systems, devices to simulate their http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (7 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents operation, new equipment, and a changing organization, all within a changing body of doctrine developed to defeat the enemy. To do this, our top priority is training that is-- ● Tough, realistic, and challenging. ● Multiecheloned and performance-oriented. ● Focused on and carefully planned and coordinated with the combined arms team. ● Based on the integration of collective and soldier tasks. ● Vigorously executed and evaluated. d. We can accomplish these training goals if we understand, live, and breathe the idea that TRAINING IS THE MOST IMPORTANT THING WE DO. All functions, such as maintenance and care for our soldiers' safety, are part of our overall approach to training. The execution of our training program is a reflection of our leadership. It requires that we understand how we train to fight at every echelon and that our mission essential tasks are battle focused on the wartime mission to ensure combat readiness. 2. Areas of Emphasis: All aspects of our training and training management program contribute significantly to our combat readiness. I will address many of these in detail in my QTG memos. Following are my priorities for training this period. a. Tasks on the METL that are not assessed as "T." b. Division battle tasks. c. Soldier, leader, and collective training which supports the METL. d. Combined arms training. e. Training evaluations and feedback. f. Lessons learned during training. g. Integration of a total maintenance concept. 3. Training to fight and win on the mechanized battlefield is the reason for our existence. This division has always been a significant force in the FORSCOM structure. We must be trained and ready for war to ensure that we maintain a credible deterrent force. Our mission is not easy, but the American public demands nothing short of success. SIGNATURE DIVISION COMMANDER http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (8 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents 2 Encls 1. *52d Inf Div Long-Range Calendar 2. 52d Inf Div Task Organization DISTRIBUTION: A and B *The 52d Inf Div (Mech) long-range calendar depicts a two-year period. This enclosure includes only the first three quarters to show information normally found on the calendar. It is only an example, not meant to show the entire division long-range plan. The subordinate units from 1st Bde, the 1-40 FA Bn from DIVARTY, and the 1st FSB from DISCOM, are shown because they are the example units used throughout the manual. The division's QTG and QTC for 2d quarter (Jan-Mar) provide the foundation for subordinate units' planning. Figure A-1. Master Training Calendar. Figure A-2. Continued. Figure A-3. Continued. Figure A-4. Continued. Figure A-5. Continued. Figure A-6. Continued. Figure A-7. Continued. 52D INFANTRY DIVISION (MECH) TASK ORGANIZATION 1st Bde 1-77 Mech 1-2 Armor 1-3 Armor 1-40 FA (DS) A/1-441 ADA (DS) 1/52d Chem Co A/52d Engr (DS) *Tm A/52d MI (DS) 1/1/B/52d MI 1/52d MP Co (DS) 1/B/52d Sig 1st FSB http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (9 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents 2d Bde 1-78 Mech 1-79 Mech 1-4 Armor 1-41 FA (DS) B/1-441 ADA (DS) 2/52d Chem Co B/52d Engr (DS) *Tm B/52d MI (DS) 2/52d MP Co (DS) 2/B/52d Sig 2d FSB 313th Inf Bde (Mech) (RC) 2-141 Mech 2-142 Mech 2-17 Armor 2-71 FA (DS) C/1-441 ADA (DS) 313th Engr Co 313th FSB 52d Cbt Avn Bde 151st Atk Hel Bn 152d Atk Hel Bn 52d Aslt Hel Co 52d Cbt Avn Co 52d DIVARTY A-43 FA (MLRS) B-52d Tgt Acq Btry Div Trp 1-23 Cav A/2-31 Cav (RC) 1-441 ADA (-) 52d Chem Co (-) http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (10 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents 52d Engr (-) 52d MI (-) 52d MP Co (-) 52d Sig (-) DISCOM 52d MSB 52d AVIM Co 52d MMC * Normally the MI battalion will be general support to the division. An MI company team in direct support to a brigade would be temporary, based on the METT-T. EXAMPLE DIVISION QUARTERLY TRAINING GUIDANCE DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY HEADQUARTERS, 52D INFANTRY DIVISION (MECHANIZED) FT RILEY, KS 66442-5000 LCWG-CG 28 September 199X MEMORANDUM FOR SEE DISTRIBUTION SUBJECT: Quarterly Training Guidance - 2d Qtr, FY 9X 1. References. a. FM 25-100, dtd Nov 88, Subj: Training the Force. b. FM 25-101, dtd Mar 90, Subj: Battle Focused Training, Battalion Level and Lower. c. Memo, 52d Infantry Division (Mechanized), dtd 15 Jan 9X, Subj: FY 9X Command Training Guidance. 2. Purpose. The purpose of the QTG is to refine the guidance provided in the CTG and lay out my current assessment of the division's ability to successfully execute its METL. This memorandum also provides a listing of major training events occurring during the second quarter and outlines topics which must be covered during the brigade and battalion QTBs. 3. Training Assessment. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (11 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents a. The results of the division's simulation-driven CPX conducted last quarter convinced me the division can effectively execute its deployment mission. The leaders and soldiers of the division should be proud of their excellent performance during the CPX. Leaders must continue to sustain deployment proficiency. b. Presently, the division cannot conduct certain tactical missions as smoothly and effectively as it should. I have assessed the division as "P" on the following METL tasks relating to combat operations. (1) Conduct an area defense. (2) Conduct a counterattack. 4. Training Events. Following are the division's major training events during the second quarter: ● 02 Jan - 26 Mar: 1st and 2d Bde Intensive Gunnery Training. ● 03 Jan - 05 Jan: Div TEWT - Battalion through division commanders, battle staffs, and separate company commanders. ● 08 Feb - 26 Feb: Division QTB. ● 28 Feb: Division Radio Net Training. ● 28 Feb - 29 Feb: MSE Training. ● 15 - 18 Mar: 1st Brigade CPX. 5. Training Strategy. I want second quarter training to emphasize these collective and soldier tasks which support the division's METL tasks listed as "P" in para 3. Following are some points commanders need to consider during their short-range and near-term planning: a. Support Cycle Training. IAW my strategy of shielding brigades from support duties during the 120 days prior to their NTC rotation, the 1st Brigade will not be tasked with ordinary support duties after February. Units in the support cycle must continue to do soldier, crew, and small-unit training whenever possible. Opportunity training is the key to maximizing training during support cycles. Unit integrity must be maintained when accomplishing support taskings. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (12 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents b. Slice Training. Leaders must continue to find ways to strengthen the cohesion and interoperability between the brigade and battalion task force and the respective slice elements. The 1st Brigade subordinate commanders should reinforce the combined arms team concept by routinely training as battalion task forces and company teams in preparation for the NTC. c. OPFOR. Units designated as an OPFOR for an exercise have an obligation and an opportunity. The units' obligation is to portray an OPFOR that looks realistic and uses actual threat doctrine. The OPFOR units have a tremendous opportunity to expand leaders' and soldiers' understanding of how the threat operates. Ensure that units designated to be OPFOR have adequate time to train for their roles. Both brigades will have the opportunities to provide OPFOR support during this quarter. d. Maintenance Training. The division continues to lose too much operational time and spend too much money on repair parts because untrained soldiers are not properly supervised when working on and with equipment, vehicles, and systems. Leaders must ensure that soldiers are adequately trained in maintenance techniques and are supervised. Drivers training programs must include a leader supervised and evaluated tactical field driving test. e. Leaders must emphasize the following to maximize next quarter's training: (1) Maintaining battle focus. (2) Training to standard, not time. (3) Using multiechelon training techniques. (4) Safety. 6. Quarterly Training Briefs. Quarterly training briefing dates are in the QTB memorandum of instruction (MOI) dated 1 Sep 9X and are depicted on the QTC. In addition to the standard topics commanders will discuss the following areas during the briefings: a. Integration of slice elements into training. b. Maintenance training and drivers training programs. c. OPFOR training program. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (13 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents 7. Conclusion. The second quarter will present many training challenges. Leaders must plan and execute training as if it is the most important thing they will ever do, because it is. The chain of command must vigorously execute the training schedules just as they would execute operations in combat to remain successful. I am certain that the officers and noncommissioned officers of this division are equal to the task. SIGNATURE DIVISION COMMANDER Encl Div Quarterly Training Calendar DISTRIBUTION: A and B Figure A-8. Training Calendar Jan-Mar. Figure A-9. Continued. EXAMPLE 313TH INFANTRY BRIGADE YTG TOPICS Commander, 313th Inf Bde, publishes YTG with the YTC as an enclosure. The YTG provides direction and detailed guidance for the command for the next training year (short range). The YTG may be published in the form of a circular or memorandum. Regardless of the format used, the following example items should be covered: ● Commander's training philosophy. ● METL and associated battle tasks. ● Combined arms training strategy. ● Major training events and exercises. ● Leader training. ● Soldier training. ● Mandatory training requirements IAW applicable FORSCOM or ARNG regulations. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (14 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:22 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents ● Training evaluations and feedback. ● New equipment training and other force integration considerations. ● Resource allocations. The commander of the 313th Inf Brigade, a round-out brigade, coordinates the YTG and YTC with the 52d Inf Div and the peacetime chain of command. The example 313th Inf Bde YTC follows. Figure A-10. 313 Infantry Brigade Training Calendar. EXAMPLE BRIGADE QUARTERLY TRAINING GUIDANCE DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY HEADQUARTERS, lST BRIGADE, 52D INFANTRY DIVISION FT RILEY, KS 66442-5000 LCWB-G-CDR 20 October 199X MEMORANDUM FOR SEE DISTRIBUTION SUBJECT: Quarterly Training Guidance - 2d Qtr, FY 9X 1. References. a. 52d Infantry Division Circular 350-1, dtd 18 Feb 9X, Subj: Training. b. Memo, 52d Infantry Division (Mech), dtd 15 Jan 9X, Subj: Command Training Guidance. c. Memo, 52d Infantry Division (Mech), dtd 28 Sep 9X, Subj: Quarterly Training Guidance. d. Memo, 1st Brigade, dtd 1 Mar 9X, Subj: Command Training Guidance 2. Purpose. This memorandum provides my vision of how the brigade must train during the next quarter. It outlines my assessment of our current level of training, major training events occurring next quarter, and my training strategy for preparing soldiers, leaders, and units to perform their mission essential tasks. 3. Training Assessment. a. I am satisfied with the brigade's direction in training. Leaders are working hard to make training both interesting and productive. Our http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (15 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents implementation of FM 25-101 and the integration of SATS into the brigade have greatly improved our training management system. The brigade's strategy of attempting to fence company-level training time during the post support cycle appears to be working well. Significant progress is being made in raising the proficiency of soldiers and platoons on those tasks which support the brigade's METL. b. There is still much work to do. The brigade and the task forces have not had an opportunity to go to the field since the external evaluations last quarter. Based on last quarter's external evaluation and my unit assessment during this quarter, the brigade's training status on its METL tasks is as follows: ● Move by Road/Rail to APOE/SPOE ...............................T ● Prepare for Combat Operations ................................T ● Move to and Occupy Assembly Areas ............................T ● Conduct Relief in Place ......................................T ● Conduct Area Defense .........................................T ● Conduct Counterattack.........................................T ● Conduct Movement to Contact ..................................T ● Conduct Hasty Attack .........................................T 4. Training Events. Following are the major training events for the brigade during the second quarter: ● 03 Jan - 05 Jan: DIV TEWT. Includes Bde and Bn commanders and battle staffs. ● 02 Jan - 09 Feb: BDE Gunnery. ● 08 Jan - 12 Jan: Command Inspection (1-2 Armor). ● 22 Jan - 26 Jan: Command Inspection (1-3 Armor). ● 29 Jan - 02 Feb: Command Inspection (1-77 Infantry). ● 05 Mar - 09 Mar: TF 1-2 supports 2d Bde TF EXEVAL. ● 15 Mar - 18 Mar: BDE CPX. ● 26 Mar - 31 Mar: 1-3 AR supports 2d Bde TF EXEVAL. 5. Training Strategy. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (16 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents a. The division commander has emphasized the importance of task force and team training in preparation for the NTC at the end of the third quarter. He has also shielded us from support taskings after February. We must use this opportunity to the fullest. I expect leaders to maximize this training opportunity through the following: (1) Battle Focused Training. We must master our METL tasks during this training window. There is no time to waste. I expect a direct connection between all training and the METL. (2) Combined Arms Team Training. Brigade and battalion training must integrate the slice elements. The brigade QTC will continue to reflect the battalion's peacetime modification table of organization and equipment (MTOE). However, I expect the training to reflect the task organization at Enclosure 2. Commanders will assess task force and company team proficiency and execute training accordingly. This will require intensive coordination between, particularly, TF 1-2 Armor, TF 1-77, and the 2-17 Armor, 313th Inf Bde, which will go to the NTC with the brigade. (3) Synchronization of Collective and Soldier Task Training. Soldier task training must support the METL. Integrate NCO leaders into the training planning process and ensure all leaders understand their soldiers' and units' roles in supporting the higher unit's METL. (4) Training to Standard. Plan enough time to retrain and execute the tasks to standard. Use pretesting and post testing during training to determine when to move on to the sustainment phase. Leaders, get out and ensure training is done to standard. b. We don't have time next quarter to train every task on which I have rated the brigade "P." Following are brigade METL tasks which I expect the task forces to be able to support by the end of the quarter. (1) Conduct area defense. (2) Conduct counterattack. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (17 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents c. During this period I want to emphasize the following: (1) Scheduled Gunnery and Task Force FTX Period. This is the task force commanders' opportunity to conduct intensive task force and team training. Task forces will rotate between executing gunnery, mission, and field training events. The order of rotation (starting with gunnery) will be 1-3 Armor, TF 1-77, and TF 1-2. UCOFT training will be intensively planned and managed to improve our gunnery. Brief me on your plans at the QTB. (2) Brigade CPX. The brigade and battalion command posts will deploy to the field to practice the two METL tasks which I mentioned above. The basis for the CPX scenario is our wartime OPLAN. The CPX will be supported by the division's simulation center. (3) Training Execution. I still see frequent examples of well-planned training being executed poorly. Give your trainers time to prepare training and provide feedback concerning their training. Leaders--train the trainer! Ensure rehearsals are planned and conducted. Leaders have to be involved in the execution of training. (4) Maintenance Training. Our vehicles and systems will be used extensively next quarter. Ensure all services are current and required services are scheduled and conducted IAW the training schedule. Emphasize maintenance training while at gunnery and in the field. d. A reminder--the brigade is not training to win at the NTC. We are training for war, and the NTC provides us the most realistic challenge short of war. 6. Quarterly Training Briefs. The battalion and company QTBs will be conducted as shown on the QTC. Battalions and task forces and companies and teams will brief according to their wartime organization (for example, A Co, 1-2 Armor, briefs with other units of TF 1-77). Each company will have 45 minutes to brief. In addition to the normal required topics, want to hear your plans for maintenance training and drivers training programs. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (18 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents 7. A final reminder, I want you to think, assess, plan, and execute training as a task force and team. Work on your habitual association and set your priorities on training that will make us a better combat force. Let's do routine things routinely. SIGNATURE BRIGADE COMMANDER 2 Encls 1. Bde Quarterly Tng Calendar 2. Bde Task Organization Distribution: A Figure A-11. Training Calendar. Figure A-12. Continued. 1ST BRIGADE, 52D INFANTRY DIVISION TASK ORGANIZATION TF 1-77 1-77 Mech (-) A/1-2 Armor TF 1-2 1-2 Armor (-) A/1-77 Mech 1-3 Armor Bde Control 1-40 FA (DS) A/1-441 ADA (DS) 1/52d Chem Co http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (19 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents A/52 Engr (DS) 1/1/B/52d MI *Tm A/52d MI (DS) 1/52d MP Co (DS) 1/B/52d Sig Bde Trains 1st Fwd Spt Bn * Normally the MI battalion will be general support to the division. An MI company team in direct support to a brigade would be temporary, based on METT-T. EXAMPLE BATTALION QUARTERLY TRAINING GUIDANCE DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY HQ, 1ST BATTALION,77TH INFANTRY (MECH) FT RILEY, KS 66442- 5000 LCWB-GA-CDR 20 November l99X SUBJECT: Quarterly Training Guidance, 2d Qtr, FY 8X 1. References. a. 52d Division Training Circular 350-1, dtd 18 Feb 9X, Subject: Training. b. Memo, 52d Infantry Division, dtd 15 Jan 9X, Subject: Command Training Guidance FY 9X. c. Memo, 52d Infantry Division, dtd 28 Sep 9X, Subject: Quarterly Training Guidance - 2d Quarter, FY 9X. d. Memo, 1st Brigade, dtd 1 Mar 9X, Subject: Command Training Guidance. e. Memo, 1st Brigade, dtd 20 Oct 9X, Subject: Quarterly Training Guidance - 2d Qtr, FY 9X. f. Memo, 1st Bn, 77th Inf, dtd 2 Dec 9X, Subject: METL. 2. Purpose. To provide training guidance for the 1st Bn, 77th Inf, for 2d Quarter, FY 9X. 3. Training Assessment. a. I am very proud of the battalion's performance last quarter. The http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (20 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents company EXEVALs were dynamic and productive. Proficiency improved on several METL tasks. However, we still need to improve our ability to execute several collective and soldier tasks. Following is my assessment of the battalion's METL proficiency: ● Move by Road/Rail to APOE/SPOE ....................................P ● Perform Tactical Road March .......................................P ● Occupy Assembly Area ..............................................P ● Defend ............................................................P ● Move Tactically ...................................................T ● Attack/Counterattack by Fire ......................................T ● Assault ...........................................................P b. The command sergeant major has assessed the following soldier tasks as "P" and as needing emphasis during the next quarter's training: ● Move a Casualty from Immediate Battle Area. ● Use Visual Signaling Techniques. ● Move as a Member of Patrol. ● Move as a Member of Fire Team. ● Navigate from One Point to Another. ● Construct Fighting Position (Dragon). ● Construct Fighting Position (M203, M249 SAW, M60). ● Conduct Troop Leading Procedures. ● Designate Alternate and Supplemental Positions. c. I have noticed great improvement in the soldiers' tasks assessed as "P" last quarter. Our NCO leaders have trained our soldiers well. However, some soldiers are still weak in the area of defensive tasks. We need to show improvement in the defensive tasks as we prepare for the NTC. We will emphasize constructing fighting positions this quarter. d. Our medics did extremely well in the EFMB last month. We must continue to draw upon the expertise of these soldiers during our preparation for the NTC. Our battalion will execute a MASCAL exercise to refine our SOP and http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (21 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents test the AXP concept with the 1st FSB. e. The battalion's effort during the support cycle was outstanding. All our taskings and support requirements were filled. Dynamic management by the staff, CSM, and 1SGs freed up some unexpected training time for planned opportunity training. 4. Combined Arms Training. Cross attachment of A Co, 1-2 Armor, during the Bn FTX will provide an excellent opportunity for us to work as a combined arms team. The S3 has done an excellent job coordinating our calendar with our slice elements to integrate them into our collective and leader training. Additionally, A Co will have the opportunity to work with 1-2 Armor Battalion. I expect all commanders to use imagination and innovation to integrate the slice into all training events. During weekly training meetings, I want you to show me how you are training as a team. 5. Training. a. The 2d Qtr is all training for the battalion. We are not tasked with post support until after the NTC. The quarter is jam-packed with outstanding collective training opportunities. I expect maximum effort at all echelons to use this training period most effectively. Some of the training highlights for the quarter follow: ● 03 Jan - 05 Jan: Div TEWT (battalion commander and staff only). ● 08 Jan - 26 Jan: Gunnery. ● 09 Jan - 10 Jan: Bn TEWT. ● 29 Jan - 02 Feb: Bde CIP. ● 15 Feb: Company QTBs. ● 21 Feb - 23 Feb: Individual Weapons Qualification. ● 05 Mar - 19 Mar: Mission battalion. ● 15 Mar - 18 Mar: Bde CPX. ● 18 Mar - 25 Mar: TF FTX. b. We will focus our training efforts on the following METL tasks, which I have assessed the battalion as "P": http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (22 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents ● Perform Tactical Road March. ● Occupy Assembly Area. ● Defend. ● Assault. Additionally, we will train to sustain Attack/Counterattack by Fire task. c. Gunnery. Our semiannual gunnery training is scheduled 8 through 26 January. Companies will be firing through tables XII. We will maximize the use of the UCOFT IAW the schedule published by the S3. Training must be well planned and properly coordinated to get the maximum benefit from the UCOFT. d. TF FTX Periods. Commands will have the opportunity to conduct soldier and collective training on theses tasks. Time will be allocated to conduct precombat checks, rehearsals, and retraining on tasks not trained to standard. e. Brigade CPX. This will provide the battalion staff and commanders the opportunity to train essential command and control tasks, using brigade battalion simulation (BBS), prior to the TF FTX. During this period, companies will have the opportunity to train essential collective and soldier tasks requiring emphasis. 6. Quarterly Training Briefs. The QTB just conducted locked in all the training resources for the upcoming quarter. Company commanders' QTBs for the third quarter will be conducted 15 February. Commanders will brief as company teams and must show how they have integrated the slice and the maintenance training programs to include drivers training. The S3 has the details on when the slice will be available. I specifically want each commander to base his training plan on his assessment of the company team METL. 7. Resources. The lock in of resources at the QTB places the battalion in http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (23 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents excellent shape for the upcoming quarter. I want all training to proceed as planned. 8. Training Evaluation and Assessment. All training will be evaluated according to Army standards found in Army publications, such as MTPs and SMs. AARs will be conducted throughout all training events, and upon completion of training. All AARs must cover the key BOS and highlight what is to be sustained and what needs to be improved. Finally, commanders must assess their units to determine their overall proficiency using the company team concept. 9. Our greatest responsibility in peacetime is to conduct safe, realistic training. Well-thought-out and well-planned training events will identify and strengthen our weaknesses and sustain our strengths. The battalion is headed for a super training period. SIGNATURE BATTALION COMMANDER 3 Encls 1. Bn. Quarterly Tng Calendar 2. Task Organization 3. UCOFT Schedule (Omitted) DISTRIBUTION: A A Co, 1-2 Armor Figure A-13. Training Calendar. Figure A-14. Continued. TF 1-77 TASK ORGANIZATION TF 1-77 http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (24 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix A Example Training Documents Tm A A/1-2 Armor (-) 1/B/1-77 Mech Tm B B/1-77 Mech (-) 1/A/1-2 Armor Co C Co D Co E TF Control Scout Pit Hvy Mrt Plt 1/A/1-441 ADA (DS) 1/A/52d Engr (DS) 1/1/1/B/52d MI TF Trains Maint Support Tm http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_7.htm (25 of 25) [1/11/2002 3:17:23 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix B Leader Development RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions APPENDIX B LEADER DEVELOPMENT This appendix illustrates how a unit's leader development program might be structured. It also contains information on the leader book. UNIT LEADER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM The unit leader development program consists of three phases: reception and integration, basic skills development, and advanced development and sustainment. The commander determines subordinate leaders' developmental needs and begins unit-related development training during the reception and integration phase. RECEPTION AND INTEGRATION PHASE For noncommissioned officers, the CSM and 1SG are key players in the reception and integration phase. Prior to arrival of new leaders, the commander or key NCOs review the Officer Record Brief (ORB) or the Enlisted Record Brief (ERB) and DA Form 2-1, Personnel Qualification Record-Part II. The commander or CSM interviews the new leader as soon as he arrives to clearly define his training needs. They discuss the leader's-- ● Assigned duty position. ● Previous experience and training. ● Personal desires. ● Possible future assignments. In addition to the records review and interview, a diagnostic test may be used to identify the new leader's school qualifications, and training strengths and weaknesses. The information gathered during the reception and integration phase is used to design a formal developmental program tailored to the individual leader's needs. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_8.htm (1 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:25 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix B Leader Development After the interview with the commander or CSM, the leader receives his unit orientation and his leader development program. He receives introductions to and briefings by the unit's key personnel. He also receives instruction in the profession of arms and in the unit's history, traditions, and mission. He is made to feel welcome and a vital part of the unit. BASIC SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PHASE The leader then progresses to the second phase of the program, the basic skills development phase. This phase occurs within the first few months. It ensures that the new leader attains a minimum acceptable level of proficiency in the critical tasks necessary to perform his mission. The responsibility for this phase lies with his leader, assisted by the other key officers and noncommissioned officers. ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINMENT PHASE The last phase is the advanced development and sustainment phase. This phase involves sustaining those tasks already mastered and developing proficiency in new tasks. The commander uses additional duty assignments, technical courses, and developmental courses to broaden the leader's perspective and skills for current and future duties. Training and duty in special emphasis areas, such as the arms room, maintenance, and supply, help the leader to prepare for future assignments. Also during this phase, the leader starts a self-development program consisting of professional reading and correspondence courses. The self development program focuses on those skills that the leader needs or desires to develop. It is designed with the assistance of the commander or CSM and 1SG. Future assignments are important in a leader's development program. The commander uses assignments to provide junior leaders with the experience required for professional and personal development. To maximize leader development in subordinates, the commander should-- ● Assign missions and tasks that challenge without overwhelming. ● Move subordinate leaders into positions of increased responsibility as they demonstrate their capability. ● Base reassignment on their level of development. ● Supervise and mentor their development. The commander should know his leaders so well that he can identify when they have mastered their current assignment responsibilities and either increase their responsibilities, expose them to developmental activities, or move them to positions of greater responsibility if appropriate. EXAMPLE LEADER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_8.htm (2 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:25 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix B Leader Development Each commander's leader development program will be unique. To be most effective, the commander must continually listen to, understand, challenge, and mentor junior leaders. The quality of the program and results obtained depend on the commander and his emphasis on the program. The following example shows a unit's leader development program. The S1, 1st FSB, notified the commander and the CSM that 2LT Wright and SSG Snow were being assigned to the battalion. Sponsors were assigned to assist them in their transition. The sponsors sent welcome packets to 2LT Wright and SSG Snow which included information on the unit's physical fitness program and leader development program. The battalion commander reviewed their records. He discussed the lieutenant's assignment with the S1 and the staff sergeant's assignment with the CSM and S1. The commander decided to assign the staff sergeant as the Automotive Repair Section Sergeant and the lieutenant as the Ground Support Equipment Platoon Leader. When the lieutenant arrived, the battalion commander interviewed him. He told 2LT Wright that all assignments are important and vital to the success of the unit's mission. The key to his professional development is not only which jobs he is holding, but also how well he learns and performs the duties he is assigned. The battalion commander told 2LT Wright that he was assigning him as a platoon leader so that he could gain experience leading soldiers. That assignment also would help him learn the basics of maintenance operations. He could then be assigned as the shop officer of the Maintenance Company, with a possible follow on assignment to the Maintenance Operations Section, Forward Support Battalion. The battalion commander explained that these assignments would provide an excellent foundation for his future utilization as an ordnance officer. He also explained the battalion's leader development program and how it was molded to fit him. The commander and CSM interviewed SSG Snow later that day. The commander told the sergeant that she was being initially assigned as the Automotive Repair Section Sergeant. In six months, the current platoon sergeant was departing and SSG Snow might be assigned to that position. SSG Snow said she hoped to be selected to attend Advanced Noncommissioned Officers' Course (ANCOC) within the next eighteen months. The CSM told SSG Snow that if she did attend ANCOC she would be assigned to a new duty position upon her return. Support Operations Section NCOIC might be a possibility. Assignment to the Division Material Management Center was also a possibility prior to SSG Snow departing the division. After leaving the commander's office, SSG Snow received detailed information from the battalion CSM about the battalion and its leader development program. The CSM provided SSG Snow with a packet describing the unit's history and traditions, the battalion's structure, and the key leaders within the battalion. Lieutenant Wright also received a similar packet from the battalion commander. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_8.htm (3 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:25 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix B Leader Development Also during the reception and integration phase, 2LT Wright and SSG Snow participated in the following: ● A tour of all unit facilities including billets, motor pool, arms room, NBC room, and dining facility. ● A tour of the division area including the division museum. ● Information briefings provided by each battalion staff section. The Bravo Company commander provided 2LT Wright with a copy of the battalion's basic skills development program for platoon leaders. The program was based upon the company's METL and focused on leader tasks associated with the Ground Support Equipment Platoon. Within 60 days of assignment, 2LT Wright would have to demonstrate a thorough knowledge of the platoon's wartime mission and proficiency in mission essential tasks. These tasks might include Conduct a Tactical Road March, Prepare Unit Status Report, Supervise PMCS, Check Open Job Orders and Repair Part Requisitions, and Plan DS Maintenance Workload. SSG Snow was assessed as having the basic skills necessary to perform her assigned duties; therefore, she was entered directly into the advanced proficiency and sustainment phase of the leader development program. To prepare herself for duty positions in different types of units, SSG Snow decided to learn more about supply operations. The CSM and 1SG worked with SSG Snow to identify correspondence courses and other professional development tools that would expand her knowledge of CSS operations. After 2LT Wright had begun the basic skills phase, the battalion commander met with him and discussed his continued development. The commander pointed out that the MQS II common and branch guides define those skills required prior to his attending Officer Advanced Course. He explained to 2LT Wright that he was personally responsible for acquiring these skills either through his branch or functional area schooling, the unit leader development program, or his self-development program. The commander further encouraged him to develop a better understanding of CSS operations by reading professional books, magazines, and bulletins. In addition, the commander emphasized broadening his awareness of Army organizations, combat operations, and military history. He provided a list of books which he wanted 2LT Wright to read. Concurrently, 2LT Wright and SSG Snow were integrated into the unit's ongoing advanced and sustainment phase. This phase focused on the unit's METL-based tasks which are linked to the unit training plan. In four months, the battalion will be going to the National Training Center (NTC) to support the 1st Brigade. Hence, 2LT Wright's training was accelerated on SOPs and doctrine and tactics. To better prepare himself for the NTC, 2LT Wright also learned each leader's role in executing the battalion mission. SSG Snow was involved in similar training at company level under the supervision of the company commander and 1SG. The commander wanted 2LT Wright and SSG Snow to become familiar with the needs of the customers http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_8.htm (4 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:25 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix B Leader Development they serve. He directed the S3 to coordinate their spending time with key combat arms, CS, and CSS organizations supported by the battalion. For example, 2LT Wright and SSG Snow visited the Division Material Management Center; the DISCOM Security, Plans, and Operations Section; the Main Support Battalion; and selected corps support command (COSCOM) organizations. These visits assisted the leaders in understanding the CSS system and its capabilities. The leaders also spent time with a mechanized infantry battalion and an armor battalion from the brigade that the 1st FSB supports. This orientation was a key part of the leader training program. It provided the leaders with insights into the requirements and support of the supported combat arms units. Most important, it provided the leaders the opportunity to meet face to face those they support and those who support them. LEADER BOOK Leaders are responsible for identifying and training essential soldier tasks that support the unit's mission essential collective tasks. To ensure soldiers are trained on their critical tasks, leaders must fully understand the unit's collective tasks and how soldier tasks are planned, trained, and evaluated to support their accomplishment. Because of limited training resources and time, soldiers normally cannot train on and reasonably sustain every task. Therefore, leaders must use the battle focus process to refine the list to mission-related soldier tasks essential to the soldier's duty position and responsibilities. A tool to aid in this process is the leader book. Leaders record in the leader book information addressing administrative data, common tasks, skill qualification assessment, and specific collective tasks which support the unit's METL. They also record personal information that affects soldiers' training performance and that leaders need to know to provide training which meets their soldiers' personal needs. The information recorded is tailored to meet each unit's specific needs. An example of one way to record administrative and basic soldier information, using SATS, is at Figure B-1. Units should develop and use their own format based upon desired information. The information can be in any format the leader chooses. A small, pocket-sized memo book or a full-sized multipage notebook can be used. The bottom line is that leaders should have a way of recording information. The information is invaluable to the leaders as they-- ● Track and evaluate their soldiers' training status and proficiency on essential soldier tasks. ● Provide administrative input to the chain of command on proficiency of their units; for example, platoon, section, squad, team, or crew. ● Conduct soldier performance counseling. TRACK TRAINING STATUS Leaders list in the leader book the common tasks found in the Soldier's Manual of Common Tasks that support the METL. They track soldier proficiency on these selected tasks. They may also record the http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_8.htm (5 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:25 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix B Leader Development results of Army soldier training requirements, such as marksmanship, APFT, and UCOFT. Leaders should record MOS-specific tasks which support the METL and annotate evaluation results. They can quickly identify weaknesses and plan and conduct training to improve proficiency. The leader book should contain only collective tasks and drills required to support the METL. Section, squad, and crew collective tasks and drills are derived from applicable MTPs. Units without a published MTP will have to examine each company METL task, determine which collective tasks and drills support it, and enter those tasks in the leader book. For each task listed in the leader book, soldiers first need to be trained and then evaluated to determine if they can actually perform the task. Leaders may perform either a formal or an informal evaluation; however, they should always adhere to the performance standards contained in the appropriate soldier's manual, the Soldier's Manual for Common Tasks, and applicable MTPs. Once the leader determines the proficiency of a squad, team, crew, or soldier, he should record the date of the evaluation as go/no-go opposite the task (as in Figure B-1). The leader book should not be inspected. Leaders need to refer to it when talking about the proficiency of their soldiers and units. The CSM and lSGs must teach and mentor NCOs on the importance and use of the leader book. This should be done as a part of leader development. PROVIDE INPUT TO THE CHAIN OF COMMAND A leader may use information in the leader book to provide input on his unit during daily "huddles" and company training meetings. For example, if three of five squad members cannot perform "Practice Preventive Medicine" to standard, the squad leader may want to train this task during the next available training period. Some units devote blocks of time for soldier training. In such units, the leader book is an excellent tool to determine what tasks to train during those periods. Figure B-1. Example administrative soldier information. Figure B-1 (continued). CONDUCT SOLDIER PERFORMANCE COUNSELING Leaders may use the information in the leader book during soldier performance counseling to quickly identify the tasks or group of tasks soldiers are having difficulty mastering. This helps the leader decide what to tell each soldier about how to improve his performance. For example, leaders can use this information in conjunction with DA Form 2166-7, Noncommissioned Officer Evaluation Report (NCO- ER), to provide specific bullet examples for parts III, IV, and V. Demonstrated performance determines training effectiveness. The leader book is a handy record of how http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_8.htm (6 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:25 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix B Leader Development well soldiers and elements have performed tasks. For example, when a platoon leader or platoon sergeant and a squad leader are discussing the training proficiency of the squad or soldiers in the squad, they should have the book available as a reference. The leader book helps them determine which tasks need to be trained. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_8.htm (7 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:25 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix C Training Exercises RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions APPENDIX C TRAINING EXERCISES This appendix provides an overview of training exercises. It also tells how commanders select the exercise they train. Training exercises provide an excellent environment for the simultaneous performance of multiechelon training activities to evaluate and to sustain the skills of soldiers, leaders, teams, staffs, and units. Exercises simulate battle conditions to train leaders under mission-unique conditions and standards for applying the best tactics, techniques, and procedures to the unit METT-T. Some exercises use minimal troop support in providing commanders and staffs realistic practice in executing wartime missions. Other exercises combine units, including other services, to train critical teamwork and synchronization skills. Some goals associated with training exercises are-- ● Sustain soldier, leader, and collective skills. ● Develop and sustain command and control skills of commanders and their staffs. ● Support multiechelon training. ● Provide an opportunity to train using increasingly more realistic (difficult) conditions. EXERCISE SELECTION Commanders select a particular training exercise or combination of exercises based on specific training objectives and on available resources (Figure C-1). When selecting exercises, commanders must consider several key questions: ● Who will be trained (soldiers, leaders, teams, or units)? ● What are the training objectives? ● Which, if any, of the training exercises are most suitable to accomplish each objective? http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_9.htm (1 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:28 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix C Training Exercises ● What are the available resources (time, training areas, equipment, money)? ● Which of the training exercises or combination will help meet the training objectives within the available training resources? Figure C-1. Realism versus level of resourcing. To accomplish training objectives for all mission essential tasks, commanders often must be innovative. Their units may be untrained in certain tasks because they lack the proper resources. A common example is the task Conduct a River Crossing. Many installations do not have a river that is wide enough or that has crossing sites. However, most of the subtasks associated with a tactical river crossing do not require water. Preparation of Units, Assembly Area Operations, Engineer Regulating Points, Equipment Holding Areas, Preparation of Approaches, Fire Support, Security Measures, Command and Control, and many other tasks can be trained using any of the exercises described in this appendix. Of course, the engineer bridge company needs to train in water, as do combat arms units when training with rubber boats or other crossing equipment. Positioning an armored vehicle launched bridge (AVLB) at the motor pool rear gate, however, will enable squad leaders and vehicle commanders to practice guiding vehicles onto and off a bridge or raft. The key is to focus on the METL and to break tasks down into subtasks that can be trained. Pre-execution and precombat checks (see Chapters 3 and 4) are tailored to specific exercises. Leaders must provide time on the training schedule for prerequisite training prior to the execution of the selected exercise. Prerequisite training is essential to ensure that soldiers, leaders, and units are prepared and ready to properly execute the exercises. The exercises discussed in this appendix are: MAPEX, TEWT, FCX, CPX, STX, CFX, LCX, FTX, and LFX. Chapter 4 contains examples of a CFX and an FTX. Commanders and leaders can use the exercise matrix at Figure C-2 to determine which exercise provides training on a specific function. For example, a commander may want to conduct training on engineer systems. He could use MAPEX, TEWT, CPX, CFX, and FTX to train his soldiers, leaders, or unit. SPECIFIC EXERCISES MAP EXERCISE The MAPEX portrays military situations on maps and overlays. It requires a minimum number of support personnel and may be conducted in garrison or in the field. When conducted in garrison, it is low-cost in terms of training dollars and facilities; it is an excellent training tool for a resource-constrained unit. Communications equipment may be used. A MAPEX helps the commander train his staff and leaders in planning, coordinating, and executing operations tasks on map boards, chalkboards, training mock-ups, and sand tables. It is an excellent training tool before conducting other more costly exercises. A MAPEX trains the following: ● Functioning as an effective team. ● Exchanging information. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_9.htm (2 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:28 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix C Training Exercises ● Preparing estimates. ● Giving appraisals. ● Making recommendations and decisions. ● Preparing plans. ● Issuing orders. ● Coordinating execution of orders. A MAPEX can be conducted internally at platoon, company, and battalion level or externally with a brigade or division MAPEX. It should include all the leadership of attached and supporting elements. Figure C-3 shows personnel (as a minimum) that should attend. TACTICAL EXERCISE WITHOUT TROOPS The TEWT is conducted on actual terrain with unit leaders and staffs, without soldiers. A TEWT allows the battalion TF or company commander to train his staff and subordinate leaders. It also allows him to analyze, plan, and present how he would conduct an operation on the actual terrain. TEWTs are normally conducted internally. Because only the battle staff and selected support personnel are involved, the TEWT is an inexpensive way to familiarize leaders with the area of operations. Figure C-2. Exercise selection matrix. Figure C-2 (continued). A TEWT can be used to train personnel-- ● To analyze terrain. ● To employ units according to terrain analysis. ● To emplace weapons systems to best support the unit's mission. ● To prepare and validate plans. ● To plan CS and CSS operations. Figure C-4 shows TEWT participants. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_9.htm (3 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:28 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix C Training Exercises FIRE COORDINATION EXERCISE The FCX is used to train the combined arms team chain of command and related fire control elements to rapidly synchronize fires on the battlefield. The exercise can use reduced-scale targets and ranges to depict combat situations. The chain of command must respond in the form of maneuver and fire coordination techniques and procedures. Each subunit is represented by a single weapon system which can be equipped with a subcaliber device and commanded by platoon or section leader. Figure C-3. MAPEX participants. Commanders use FCXs-- ● To develop the chain of command into a team. ● To synchronize fires within the combined arms team. ● To train the chain of command prior to a live fire exercise. ● To exercise the communications net. ● To assist in integrating new weapons system. ● To portray a rapidly changing situation for the chain of command to react to. FCXs are normally used to train platoon through-battalion level. The entire task force chain of command can be trained. Figure C-5 shows participants. Figure C-4. COMMAND POST EXERCISE The CPX may be conducted in garrison or in the field. It requires the establishment of the command post. When compared with the MAPEX or TEWT, it represents a greater commitment of soldiers' time and resources. A CPX is an expanded MAPEX for staff and all commanders to lead and control tactical operations by using tactical communications systems. Often the CPX is driven by a simulation or is part of a larger exercise. Normal battlefield distances between CPs may be reduced. A CPX trains commanders and staff-- ● To build teamwork and cohesion. ● To exchange information by proper reporting IAW tactical SOPs. ● To prepare estimates, plans, and orders. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_9.htm (4 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:28 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix C Training Exercises ● To establish and employ tactical communications. ● To displace headquarters and command posts. ● To integrate synchronized BOS. Figure C-5. FCX participants. Battalions and companies may participate in a CPX as part of a larger force (brigade, division, and corps); they also may conduct internal CPXs. Figure C-6 shows minimum personnel required. SITUATIONAL TRAINING EXERCISE STXs are mission-related, limited exercises designed to train one collective task, or a group of related tasks and drills, through practice. STXs teach the standard, preferred method for carrying out the task. They are more flexible than drills and usually include drills, leader tasks, and soldier tasks. STXs may be modified, based on the unit METL, or expanded to meet special mission requirements. To ensure standardization, service schools develop STXs to teach the doctrinally preferred way to perform specific missions or tasks. Figure C-6. CPX participants. The company commander trains STXs and other similar exercises while platoons execute combat and crew drills. The battalion commander does the same for company exercises. The battalion commander assigns his staff to evaluate and assist with the STX. The STX's final objective is to prepare units for larger scale exercises. Prerequisite training for the STX is progressive with heavy emphasis on drills. "Close-in" or local training follows with drills executed in a tactical setting using MILES. Using TEWTs, sand tables, and simulation, the STX should bring C2 elements to a high level of proficiency. An STX may be conducted like a CFX. The maneuver elements participate with slice elements (represented with only a portion of their personnel and equipment). An FA battery, for example, may be represented by a single howitzer section and fire direction center (FDC). An air cavalry troop may be represented by two or three helicopters. All elements must work together as they would in actual combat. There are no administrative aspects to the exercise. Vehicles that are destroyed must be evacuated under combat conditions. Calls for fire must be computed and shot using either full-service or subcaliber ammunition. Figure C-7 is an example of an example of an infantry platoon STX. COMMAND FIELD EXERCISE The CFX lies on a scale between the CPX and FTX. Available resources determine where the CFX fits on the scale. The CFX can also be a backup for the FTX if maneuver damage, weather, or other factors prohibit the planned FTX. The CFX is an FTX with reduced unit and vehicle density, but with full C2, CS, and CSS elements. For example, the platoon leader in his vehicle represents the entire platoon. Or a battery HQ, the FDC, and base gun represent an artillery firing battery. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_9.htm (5 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:28 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix C Training Exercises CFXs are excellent vehicles for training leaders and staff with full command, control, communications, and logistical systems. They are less expensive and exercise intersystem linkages and real distances. They sharpen unit skills in such areas as-- ● Intelligence. ● Fire support. ● Slice integration. ● CSS. ● Rear area operations. ● Command, control, and communications. A CFX can train as much, or as little, of the task force as necessary, depending on the commander's assessment and training objectives. LOGISTICAL COORDINATION EXERCISE LCXs allow leaders to become proficient at conducting unit sustainment operations such as supply, transportation, medical, personnel replacement, maintenance, and graves registration. LCXs provide a valuable, hands-on opportunity to deal with combat-related challenges of these activities. Most important, leaders can develop the SOPs so essential to their effective accomplishment. An LCX-- ● Clarifies key elements of the battalion or TF logistics apparatus. ● Exercises the flow of logistical information. ● Incorporates a tactical war game that produces a wide variety of logistical requirements. ● Allows plenty of opportunity for instruction and critique. ● Exercises the communications network. Figure C-7. Infantry platoon STX example. Figure C-8 shows the leaders and soldiers who normally conduct LCXs. Figure C-8. LCX participants. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_9.htm (6 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:28 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix C Training Exercises As the primary leaders and soldiers train for the exercise, the interplay of CSS activities can be fully examined. Unit SOPs can be developed, modified, and verified. As proficiency in logistical operations is attained, LCX can be tied to other task force exercises to complete the integration of CSS with other combat operations. FIELD TRAINING EXERCISE FTXs are conducted under simulated combat conditions in the field. FTXs fully integrate the total force in a realistic combat environment. They involve combat arms, CS, and CSS units. FTXs encompass such training as battle drills, crew drills, and STXs to reinforce soldier and collective training integration. They are used to train the commander, staff, subordinate units, and slice elements-- ● To move and maneuver units realistically. ● To employ organic weapons systems effectively. ● To build teamwork and cohesion. ● To plan and coordinate supporting fires. ● To plan and coordinate logistical activities to support tactical operations. LIVE FIRE EXERCISE LFXs are resource-intensive; player units maneuver and employ organic and supporting weapons systems using full-service ammunition. LFXs integrate all combat arms, CS, and CSS elements. The extensive range and resource requirements usually limit them to platoon and company team levels. Consequently, their principal focus is unit and weapons integration at company team level. LFXs provide realistic training on collective and soldier skills in such areas as-- ● Fire control and distribution. ● Command and control in a noisy, confusing environment. ● Individual movement techniques. ● Integration of all fire support assets. ● Small-unit tactics. ● Weapons, demolitions, and other pyrotechnics not used in other exercises. ● Safety awareness. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_9.htm (7 of 7) [1/11/2002 3:17:28 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix D Use Of Training Events/Maintain Battle Focus RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions APPENDIX D USE OF TRAINING EVENTS TO MAINTAIN BATTLE FOCUS Combat training centers (CTCs) provide the most realistic training short of combat. Therefore, this appendix uses them as examples for training to maintain battle focus. This appendix provides information on how leaders can use experiences gained through training at the CTCs. It outlines-- ● Common problems that units have experienced at the CTCs and suggested solutions by BOS. ● Training options, organized by BOS, that commanders should consider doing at home station. ● Sample training programs that units have used prior to successful CTC rotation. ● Information about how the CTC experience can be used by the rotation unit and other units to sustain proficiency on mission essential tasks after return to home station. Well-trained units do not train to "peak" for selected events or at predetermined times. However, their proficiency naturally fluctuates as a result of training frequency, leader changes, key personnel turnover, new equipment fielding, and the many activities that occur on an installation. Most major training events for battalion are scheduled well in advance; unit commanders have little influence over the timing of these events or their degree of involvement. Good commanders who know how to train and who maintain battle focus plan their schedules to take maximum advantage of the training opportunities these events provide. In addition to planning training on soldier and collective tasks and scheduling field exercises or unit simulations, units can adjust their training plans to incorporate solutions to common problems experienced at http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_10.htm (1 of 8) [1/11/2002 3:17:32 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix D Use Of Training Events/Maintain Battle Focus CTCs Commanders must enforce training to standard on wartime mission essential tasks and increase the level of realism through changing or varying conditions. Thus they ensure units attain and sustain battle proficiency within a band of excellence. CTC PROGRAM The combat training center program provides the most realistic environment available for corps and subordinate units during peacetime. The four centers are: Combat Maneuver Training Center (CMTC), National Training Center (NTC), Joint Readiness Training Center (JRTC), and Battle Command Training Program (BCTP). These centers provide active and reserve forces with hands-on training in a stressful, near-combat environment. The training is designed to exercise all or portions of the unit's METL. The centers provide realistic integration and portrayal of the joint and combined aspects of war; they train units in Airland Battle Doctrine to MTP standards. Further, the CTCs focus on those soldier tasks and leadership skills that contribute directly to the success or failure of collective tasks and unit missions. The CTCs teach combat doctrine in a straightforward way. The battles are hard fought against competitive, well- trained OPFOR. Action takes place day and night during all weather conditions. The dirt and dust, radio jamming, smoke, simulated chemical agents, and battlefield sounds all contribute to the realistic fog of battle. The key to combat readiness is maintaining battle focus and training programs that sustain unit performance within a band of excellence. Units must be combat-ready to deploy, fight, win, and survive to fight again. To be combat ready, units must perform METL tasks to MTP standards and synchronize combat power at the company and team and battalion and task force levels. Commanders must use every opportunity to train soldiers as a combined arms team under tough, realistic conditions. Externally resourced training events, including EXEVALs, provide the necessary tools to establish realistic conditions and conduct a detailed evaluation of METL task proficiency. Because of the extensive coordination and resources required, division plans and resources EXEVALs of subordinate battalions. Brigade plans and resources company EXEVALs. If a battalion is scheduled for a CTC rotation the commander should review his mission and METL and determine which tasks can be trained at the CTC. These would include most of his unit's tactical tasks (such as Attack, Defend, Retrograde Movement). These tasks would then be tied into missions and the request sent to the CTC. The CTC also provides opportunities to train on unit recall and mobilization tasks, deployment tasks (vehicle loading plans, rail-loading vehicles and equipment, manifesting personnel for air movement), and prepositioning of materiel configured to unit sets (POMCUS) draw procedures. Thus, the commander can train his soldiers and special teams on much more than just his METL's tactical tasks. But to do so, he must train them at home station prior to execution as part of his training program. He must consider the rail loading teams, departure airfield control group (DACG), equipment draw teams, and other elements (to include the FSB, engineers, and artillery) in developing the training program. During planning for a major training event, commanders establish training objectives for every level participating in the event. Soldiers, crews, squads, platoons, companies, and battalions all must have training objectives based on each leader's assessment of his unit's strengths and weaknesses. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_10.htm (2 of 8) [1/11/2002 3:17:32 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix D Use Of Training Events/Maintain Battle Focus PRIOR TO DEPLOYMENT Soldiers should be fully trained on all soldier tasks that support the unit's collective tasks prior to training at CTCs. Platoons should be trained to execute bounding overwatch movement techniques and basic drills. Maintenance teams should be proficient in pulling and replacing a vehicle engine pack to make the vehicle combat serviceable. Units must already know how to alert, deploy, and fight as a combined arms team. Before a METL task is executed, the leader prepares his unit in advance, reviewing the standards and proper execution. He walks through the tasks and rehearses them if necessary. During execution, he observes and evaluates performance and makes corrections. After completing that part of the training, when the first opportunity occurs, he conducts an informal AAR to review performance, completes his assessment, makes necessary corrections, and prepares his unit for subsequent training opportunities. AAR time should be a part of the training and evaluation; it may be necessary to repeat the task before going on to the other tasks or training. By routinely training mission essential tasks at home station, commanders can use the CTC experience and the follow-on assessment of the task force's training to fine-tune sustainment training and be better prepared for combat. Army standards from the ARTEP MTPs and soldier's manuals assist the battalion in training which ensures success in combat. The CTCs provide the commander an additional source of evaluation information on which he can base his assessment for training. As the commander builds training strategies, he must consider information from previous CTC after action reviews and take home packages in addition to evaluations conducted at home station. Most divisions conduct a postrotation AAR at home station so that all divisional units can profit from the experience. This is especially important, since many problems may require fixes outside of the rotating unit; for example, in the battalion that provides a slice element. Figure D-1 shows common problems units experience at the CTCs that commanders must consider as they prepare for rotation. The problems and suggested solutions are listed by BOS. Although the TF cannot completely replicate the CTC experience, it can focus on the following: ● Training that best uses available resources. ● Stability of task force and company-and team- level organizations. AC units seek to stabilize their soldiers, equipment, and procedures for a minimum of six months prior to a CTC deployment. RC units seek stability over an 18-month period. Combined arms slice elements should be designated early if not based on habitual association. Personnel in all units should be stabilized. ● Assignment of a partnership unit to RC units. This should be an AC battalion with recent CTC experience that can advise and assist during the predeployment training. ● Live fire exercises at platoon and company and team level. During live fire exercises, the emphasis at company and team level should be on the direct fire battle. ● Intensive training on friendly and threat vehicle identification, fire control distribution, and reporting http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_10.htm (3 of 8) [1/11/2002 3:17:32 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix D Use Of Training Events/Maintain Battle Focus procedures. ● Task force level exercises that emphasize-- --Synchronizing the battle. --Conducting IPB. --Understanding time and distance factors. --Practicing TSOP. CTC rotations that contain a mix of forces, such as heavy/light/special operating forces (SOF) or light/heavy/SOF, require other considerations. Home station training should also emphasize-- ● Standardized TSOPs. ● Exchange of liaison officers prior to rotation. ● Clear understanding of internal and external augmentation and support and task organization requirements. ● Training that progressively increases difficulty of conditions and takes advantage of relatively low-cost technology, such as-- --Sand table exercises. --MAPEXs, TEWTs, CPXs, and LCXs. --Simulations. --Videoteleconferences. ● Planning for TDY and computer data links. Figure D-2 shows specific training considerations categorized by BOS. These also should be covered at home station before the TF deploys for CTC rotation. Battalion- and company-level EXEVALs are important training events that must be planned and resourced by higher headquarters. Division plans and resources a robust OC team and a realistic OPFOR to support battalion- level EXEVALs. Brigade does the same for company level evaluations. EXEVAL planners also provide adequate time for AARs after each mission or phase of an operation. EXEVALs should provide the evaluated unit with a training experience similar to the CTC experience. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_10.htm (4 of 8) [1/11/2002 3:17:32 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix D Use Of Training Events/Maintain Battle Focus Figure D-1. Figure D-1 (continued). Figure D-1 (continued). Figure D-2. Figure D-3. Structuring the EXEVAL after the CTC experience has two distinct advantages: ● The CTC evaluation method has been proven to work well. ● The evaluated unit becomes familiar with the intensive manner in which the CTC evaluates a unit. At Figure D-3 are two sample training programs that successful armor and mechanized infantry battalion task forces used to prepare for their rotations at a CTC. The sequence of training events applies equally to both AC and RC units. The only difference is the length of time taken to conduct the training. As indicated, AC units executed the training model over a seven-month period. RC units used 18 to 24 months to conduct the training. Some key factors of these models follow: ● Deployment was only scheduled major activity in the month and a half (three months for RC units) prior to the TF's CTC rotation. ● Schedule was not jammed together. ● Preparation for the rotation began as much as two months before most units start preparing. ● Last event was a two-day tactical force-on-force MILES gunnery exercise. ● Both units conducted a division-controlled and -evaluated Army Training Battle Simulation System (ARTBASS) exercise between company and team and battalion and task force external evaluations. ● Both units participated in the FLTP. ● Both units incorporated tactical play into gunnery exercises. ● Battle focused leader seminars were conducted weekly at company team level and monthly at battalion task force level. AFTER THE CTC EXPERIENCE http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_10.htm (5 of 8) [1/11/2002 3:17:32 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix D Use Of Training Events/Maintain Battle Focus When units return to home station, the training cycle does not end. The unit must benefit from the experience. Following are leader responsibilities to ensure others gain from the rotation: ● Review AARs and take home package. ● Determine training status on METL. ● Conduct unit assessment. ● Develop future training strategies. ● Modify long-range plans. ● Develop short-range and near-term plans that correct deficiencies and sustain strengths. Unit responsibilities after the CTC experience include the following: ● Share CTC experience with other units. ● Conduct AARs and seminars. ● Identify necessary improvements. ● Develop and distribute lessons learned. ● Provide feedback to brigade and division commanders. The battalion commander must use the CTC results to sustain his unit's training performance and to take maximum advantage of major training events and his limited training time. He does this by-- ● Maintaining battle focus. All training and all activities should support the unit's combat mission and reinforce the unit METL. ● Continually assessing unit training performance on each mission essential task. ● Identifying tasks that can be trained at future CTCs or during any other scheduled major training event; for example, return of force to Germany (REFORGER), Brave Shield. ● Identifying tasks that can be trained as part of the preparation for a major training event or activity. These may be tactical tasks trained in a field environment, or they may be tasks associated with the preparation for combat which can be trained as the unit prepares to deploy for a major training event. ● Developing a sensible training program leading up to a major training event that will overcome weaknesses and sustain strengths within a band of excellence. The training program must make use of all http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_10.htm (6 of 8) [1/11/2002 3:17:32 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix D Use Of Training Events/Maintain Battle Focus scheduled events to reinforce training. Training objectives are established, standards set, and an evaluation and assessment plan prepared. CTC TRAINING MANAGEMENT INTERFACE Figure D-4 shows an example CTC training management interface process. The internal cycle is continuous while blocks 1 through 12 normally are associated with a CTC rotation. The blocks are also appropriate to a major training event such as REFORGER. A brief description of actions in each block as they apply to a CTC rotation and the variances for a major training event follows: Block 1 - The division commanding general (CG) provides his guidance and goals and approves the unit METL tasks to be trained at the CTC. Block 2 - Request for tasks and missions to be trained during the CTC rotation are forwarded to the CTC 120 days (18 months for RC units) prior to the rotation. If planning for a major training event, a decision on tasks to be trained should also be made at this point. Block 3 - This step takes place at the CTC as the operations group reviews the unit's request and develops the scenario for the unit's rotation. A scenario for a major training event would be developed in the same manner. Block 4 - This step is the same for any event as the planners and commander select all tasks that will be trained during the event. Block 5 - The CTC operations group will then coordinate its list with the unit commander. The same process would be followed for a major event. Block 6 - During this step, the CTC operations group develops the training plan for the unit's rotation. The headquarters responsible for a major training event develops the exercise plan. In both cases, the plan should include the tasks, the scenario, resource requirements, and evaluation of participating units. Block 7 - Deploy is self-explanatory. This is training time also; it too must be carefully managed. Block 8 - During this time frame, training is conducted. Block 9 - AARs should be conducted after each phase of the event. At a CTC, an AAR is conducted after each mission. The intent is to determine strengths and weaknesses. Then, during the next phase, steps are taken to correct the weaknesses while maintaining the strengths if tasks are the same. Figure D-4. A commander might also determine that the unit needs to repeat the task or mission. This is necessary when standards have not been met. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_10.htm (7 of 8) [1/11/2002 3:17:32 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix D Use Of Training Events/Maintain Battle Focus Block 10 - This AAR rolls up unit performance at the end of the rotation or event. The format is no different other than it covers all phases of a major event or all CTC missions. The unit participates fully and develops the strengths and weaknesses of its performance. Block 11 - The take home package includes many items, such as written summaries, task performance data, and AAR video tapes. A unit receives this about 30 days after a rotation and can use it as a source for the training assessment. An after action report for a major training event would contain the same information. Block 12 - The Army lessons learned system receives input from each major exercise and CTC rotation, processes it, and makes it available to the Army. Data are also used to conduct research into the various aspects of training. The internal cycle continues throughout major events and unit CTC rotations. All training must be planned well and evaluated completely. The key to the process depicted in Figure D-4 is to follow the cycle, conduct meaningful AARs, and allow units time to correct deficiencies. The last phase for an RC unit is to conduct a formal AAR NLT one month after redeployment. This AAR should include the RC unit's chain of command, the AC division and brigade (if they are round-out), and the OCs assigned for train-up. This AAR allows the unit to incorporate lessons learned at the CTC into the planning for the next short-range training cycle. Units that follow this approach to training and identify the training opportunities in any training event will find they can train on practically all of the METL as they prepare for and execute major training events. Battle focus helps identify the training opportunities and develop the training objectives. In turn, using these training events helps units maintain battle focus. The result is well-trained units that operate within a band of excellence for all, rather than a few, mission essential tasks. NOTE: The information in this appendix is a representative sample of CTC information used by 52d Infantry Division (Mech) leaders as they plan training. It depends on data provided by CTC operations groups as units rotate through. To keep current, units should contact Commander, Combined Arms Training Activity, ATTN: Center for Army Lessons Learned, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas 66027-6900, for the latest information. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_10.htm (8 of 8) [1/11/2002 3:17:32 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix E Training Aids, Devices, Simulators/Simulations RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions APPENDIX E TRAINING AIDS, DEVICES, SIMULATORS, AND SIMULATIONS This appendix provides an overview of available training aids, devices, simulators, and simulations. It also offers suggestions on how to use TADSS in company and battalion training. TADSS enhance the training of soldier, leader, crew, and collective tasks. When field maneuver areas and or ammunition are not available for training, TADSS can be used to accomplish the training. Some Army training already depends on TADSS. As new systems are fielded, higher costs for ammunition and increased maximum ranges for weapons will make many existing ranges and maneuver areas obsolete. Leaders will have to increasingly use TADSS to train soldiers. The Army's continued emphasis on combined arms training highlights additional TADSS advantages. Commanders cannot train all the members of the combined arms team together all the time. When elements of the combined arms team are not available, TADSS can simulate those elements. ELEMENTS OF TADSS TADSS have four elements--training aids, devices, simulators, and simulations. The following sections describe each and provide examples. TRAINING AIDS Training aids are items that assist in the conduct of training and the process of learning. Examples of training aids are-- ● Visual modification (VISMOD) sets; for example, BRDM-2 mock-up. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_11.htm (1 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:35 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix E Training Aids, Devices, Simulators/Simulations ● Graphic training aids (GTAs); for example-- --GTA 10-2-2, Fuel System Supply Point. --GTA 6-5-2, Fire Direction Kit. --GTA 3-6-3, NBC Warning and Reporting System. ● Models; for example, inert munitions. ● Displays; for example, OPFOR small arms. ● Slides; for example, 35-millimeter slides on training topics. ● Books; for example, documentation on training aids. ● Pictures to support briefings and presentations. ● Magnetic media; for example, training films. Most training aids are maintained at the Training and Audiovisual Support Center (TASC). DA Pamphlet 25-37 provides an index of GTAs. DA Pam 25-90 provides a list of all of the Army's training films. TRAINING DEVICES Training devices are three-dimensional objects that improve training. Generally, devices do this by giving the soldier something that substitutes for actual equipment that cannot be provided otherwise. As the following examples show, these include such things as threat equipment, munitions, and force-on-force systems: ● Smoke-producing M21 antitank mines. ● M14 antipersonnel practice mines. ● M16A1 antipersonnel practice mines. ● Suitcase sagger replica. ● Accoutrements kit (threat). ● MILES. ● Miniature moving target (MMT). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_11.htm (2 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:35 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix E Training Aids, Devices, Simulators/Simulations ● Training grenades. Most training devices are also maintained at TASC. DA Pamphlet 350-100 identifies extension training material (ETM) catalogs. DA Pamphlet 350-9 identifies training devices that support specific soldier and collective tasks. SIMULATORS Simulators are a special category of training devices that replicate all or most of a system's functions. Examples include-- ● Conduct-of-fire trainer (COFT); for examples, M2 BFV and M1 Abrams. ● Flight simulators. ● Weaponeer. ● Simulations networking (SIMNET). Unlike training aids and devices which are generally maintained at TASC, simulators are normally issued to units or to the installation for use by units. SIMULATIONS Simulations provide leaders effective training alternatives when maneuver and gunnery training opportunities are limited. When used properly, simulations can create the environment and stress of battle needed for effective command and battle staff training. Proper use of simulation helps commanders ensure quality battle training that can compensate for the following constraints to field training: ● Limited opportunities for field maneuver. ● Lack of a trained OPFOR. ● Inability to replicate full logistics battle. Simulations do not totally replace traditional field training but can provide an alternative, realistic training environment. Simulations can help do the following: ● Support mission training evaluation plan (MTEP) preparation at less cost. ● Validate internal staff training and SOPs. ● Expose battle staffs to a lethal, complex, modern battlefield. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_11.htm (3 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:35 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix E Training Aids, Devices, Simulators/Simulations ● Build battle staff and leader flexibility and responsiveness. Some currently available simulations are-- ● Tanker Game (DVC-T 17-80) (crew level). ● First Battle: Battalion-corps (company to battalion level). ● ARTBASS (battalion level). ● Interim Brigade Battalion Simulation (IBBS). ● Technical support package. USE OF TADSS BATTALION GUIDANCE Battalion-level involvement is key to the success of employing TADSS at unit level. The battalion commander must ensure that TADSS are properly used to achieve maximum benefit and cost efficiency. To this end, he must incorporate TADSS into training objectives. The battalion staff should become the functional expert on TADSS for its subordinate units. This will involve key staff members coordinating with TASC personnel to become familiar with all aspects of TADSS. As a minimum, the battalion staff should be familiar with each element of TADSS that its units regularly use. The staff can then guide units on the successful planning, preparation, and execution of TADSS-assisted training. It is also critical for the battalion staff to have knowledge of a TADSS system before its initial use by a subordinate unit. TADSS should not be used unless they enhance training. Otherwise, they become training distracters. Training aids and devices are generally simple devices that merely augment training. Units can normally use them effectively with minimal guidance from the battalion. Simulators and simulations, however, may make up a large part of the total training and require extensive support from the battalion. The battalion staff must be able to provide-- ● Resources, such as training facilities and supplies. ● Training assistance (based on input from TASC). ● Guidance such as the OPORD, and the commander's intent. ● Training objectives if requested. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_11.htm (4 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:35 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix E Training Aids, Devices, Simulators/Simulations ● Lessons learned (experiences from other subordinate units). TRAINING OBJECTIVES Training objectives are discussed in Chapter Two. Training objectives identify the who, what, where, and how of each training task, conditions, and standard. During a commander's assessment of training needs, he should determine if TADSS can enhance the training and incorporate them into his training objective. For example, CPT Jones is an armor company commander and wants to improve the gunnery skills of his tank crews. His battalion has provided assistance and he has gained access to the UCOFT simulator. A sample of one of his training objectives incorporating TADSS is at Figure E-1. Figure E-1. Sample training objectives incorporating TADSS. IMPLEMENTATION INTO UNIT TRAINING Leaders must determine the suitability of using TADSS to support events in a unit's training program. To do this, they-- ● Review the unit training program by event. ● Clearly state the training objective or objectives for each event. ● Determine if the soldiers and units being trained require initial, refresher, or sustainment training. ● Identify the major tasks to be trained to achieve each training objective. They next perform a task analysis. This will-- ● Determine the performance steps for each task. ● Identify equipment (if any) required for each task. ● Identify the conditions under which the task must be accomplished. ● Identify the standards to which it must be performed. ● Determine what tasks can be trained using TADSS. Leaders must also identify the training resources needed to accomplish the training objective. How many vehicle miles are needed? What ammunition, TADSS, ranges, and training areas are needed? They then determine TADSS availability by-- http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_11.htm (5 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:35 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix E Training Aids, Devices, Simulators/Simulations ● Asking the battalion S3 or division G3 sections what TADSS are available and how they can be scheduled. ● Visiting the installation TASC (with the training NCO). ● Reviewing the DA Pamphlet 350-100 series catalogs and other TADSS publications. Leaders must identify unit soldiers or civilian personnel needed to operate TADSS. If training is needed, leaders plan requisite training. They backward plan from the event and prepare a training strategy that-- ● Gets the unit progressively to the event. ● Coordinates for and obtains the necessary training resources. The following two scenarios show how a leader might plan for TADSS use. Scenario A A tank company commander studied the after action reviews from the unit's last CTC rotation. Analysis of data and OC comments indicated that the unit was deficient in the following tasks, thus reducing direct fire effectiveness: ● Identification. ● Target acquisition. ● Engagement. ● Battle handoff. The company commander determined that he needed to emphasize these tasks during the next training cycle. Key to success would be to provide tank crews with opportunity to practice these important skills. This would not be easy over the next few months because of-- ● Ammunition shortages. ● Limited maneuver space. ● Limited time. ● Unavailability of crews. ● Expected personnel turbulence. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_11.htm (6 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:35 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix E Training Aids, Devices, Simulators/Simulations Despite these constraints, the company commander believed that his crews must practice the deficient skills if they were to effectively use the available resources. The company commander coordinated with the battalion S3 and TASC to obtain a clear picture of available TADSS resources. He also conducted a thorough review of-- ● COFT. ● Tank Crew Gunnery Skill Test (TCGST). ● Tank Crew Proficiency Course (TCPC). ● SIMNET. ● Range schedules. The commander outlined a training program that, along with other key tasks, focused on identification, target acquisition, engagement, and battle handoff. Further, he identified all available time to practice crews in these skills. He developed a training plan that allowed crews to progress from TCGST to COFT to TCPC to home- station gunnery with feedback at each step. TADSS were integrated into the training as follows: ● Identification. An enemy weapon system graphic training aid was used for the identification portion of TCGST. ● Target acquisition. COFT was used to train crew members. Enemy vehicle silhouettes were used during the TCPC. ● Engagement. COFT was used to train on engagement techniques. ● Battle handoff. Silhouettes were used during the TCPC. Crews that failed to show improvement were given remedial practice using the best available TADSS system. Once a crew demonstrated adequate proficiency, the company commander used the following TADSS to sustain training proficiency: ● GTA 30-3-14 Warsaw Pact and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Tank Recognition Guide. ● Tank Model DVC-T710-102. ● Tank Precision Gunnery Inbore Device, Thru Sight Video. ● MILES and Laser Targeting Interface Device. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_11.htm (7 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:35 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix E Training Aids, Devices, Simulators/Simulations The commander's well-thought-out program and careful use of TADSS resources significantly improved unit performance at the next CTC rotation. Crew through platoon were much more effective in identifying, acquiring, and handing off targets. Scenario B From studying the after action reviews from the last FTX, a forward support battalion supply and services company commander decided that her unit was weak on security. The soldiers' inability to detect and identify OPFOR contributed to this weakness. Even when detected, OPFOR were neither engaged nor the unit alerted because soldiers mistook them for friendly. If the shooting had been real, the company would probably have been destroyed. The company commander determined that preparation for the next training cycle must emphasize the critical battle skills of establishing and maintaining effective unit security. Emphasis would be placed on identifying training opportunities around a busy unit schedule that would allow the company to manage multiechelon training objectives. The commander wanted to challenge her soldiers by creating as realistic an environment as possible. Coordinating with the battalion S2 and S3 officer and the TASC, the commander identified a number of training resources and scheduled them into company training. Some of the TADSS items to be employed were-- ● MILES. ● Accoutrement kit (threat). ● OPFOR small arms. ● Antipersonnel mines, practice. ● VISMODs (BRDM-2) (T-62 Tank). ● Suitcase sagger replica. ● Pictures. ● GTA 30-3-14 Warsaw Pact and NATO Tank Recognition Guide. ● GTA 30-3-25 Soviet Antitank Guided Missile Subsystems. ● GTA 30-3-16 Soviet Army and Navy Uniforms Rank and Insignia. ● GTA 30-3-18 Soviet Army Organization. The commander developed the following training program which used the above resources. The program http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_11.htm (8 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:35 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix E Training Aids, Devices, Simulators/Simulations involved one-day round robin training on OPFOR capabilities, uniforms, equipment, weapons, and preparation of positions. Soldiers were issued the GTAs to study on their own. An accoutrement kit (threat) was obtained. Pieces of equipment and soldiers dressed in OPFOR uniforms were shown to the soldiers during the morning and evening formations. At the end of the week, the soldiers were required to identify the pieces of equipment and uniforms. During an FTX, the commander positioned OPFOR soldiers and equipment along the route to the BSA. Upon arrival at the BSA, the soldiers were required to report correctly the OPFOR equipment and soldiers. If the soldier did not report correctly, his leader retrained him. These same OPFOR-equipped soldiers tested the readiness and alertness of company security in the BSA during the remainder of the FTX. The unit's soldiers responded well to the realism introduced by TADSS employment. The measure of success came during the FTX when the OPFOR was unable to surprise or penetrate the company's security. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_11.htm (9 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:35 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix F Example QTB or YTB RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions APPENDIX F EXAMPLE QTB OR YTB The quarterly training briefing (AC) and yearly training briefing (RC) are conferences on training conducted by senior commanders and battalion commanders. They are integral to the short-range training planning process described in Chapter 3. The briefings allow for battalion and company commanders to discuss training concepts, philosophies, and challenges with the division and brigade commanders, respectively. This appendix provides VGTs, as examples only, for presenting briefing information. The exact format and content will vary from command to command. The brigade and battalion long-range calendars should be posted in the meeting room for commanders to use as a reference throughout the briefing. The brigade long-range calendar covers for the AC the previous 6 months' training and the next 18 months' training. For the RC, it covers the previous 12 months' training and the next 5 years' training. The battalion long-range calendar covers the previous 3 months' training and the next 12 months' training for the AC. It covers the previous 6 months' training and the next 3 years' training for the RC. The following VGTs are for a training briefing that concludes in an agreement on the upcoming quarter's training for AC units and year's training for RC units. The most important aspects of the briefing are-- ● The linkage between the METL, unit assessment, and upcoming quarter's training. ● The linkage between soldier training and the collective tasks to be trained. ● The sharing of lessons learned. ● The training distracters that may conflict with projected training. Other VGTs may be prepared to highlight issues, such as weapons qualification, common task training (CTT), leader development program, EIB, and EFMB status. The following is a ready reference to the example briefing VGTs in this appendix. Figure F-1. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_12.htm (1 of 3) [1/11/2002 3:17:37 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix F Example QTB or YTB Figure F-2. Figure F-3. Figure F-4. Figure F-5. Figure F-6. Figure F-7. Figure F-8. Figure F-9. Figure F-10. Figure F-11. Figure F-12. Figure F-13. Figure F-14. Figure F-15. Figure F-16. Figure F-17. Figure F-18. Figure F-19. Figure F-20. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_12.htm (2 of 3) [1/11/2002 3:17:37 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix F Example QTB or YTB Figure F-21. Figure F-22. Figure F-23. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_12.htm (3 of 3) [1/11/2002 3:17:37 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix G After Action Reviews RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions APPENDIX G AFTER ACTION REVIEWS Both during and after training, evaluation feedback is used to identify successes and shortcomings. While some simple shortcomings are immediately retrained, others are scheduled for future training. Leaders must pass on this feedback so that everyone receives training value from significant events occurring during training. For all performance-oriented training, the after action review (AAR) is the key in providing this feedback. The AAR is not restricted to field exercises. This appendix provides leaders information on the after action review and its significance in providing feedback to soldiers, leaders, and units. It is a guide to leaders on how to plan, prepare, and conduct an AAR. It describes how AARs are used during or after training to link training and evaluation. WHAT IS AN AAR ? An AAR is a review of training that allows soldiers, leaders, and units to discover for themselves what happened during the training and why. It is also used to solicit ideas on how the training could have been performed better. It is a professional discussion that includes the training participants and focuses on the training objectives and their linkage to the METL and wartime mission. AARs are not critiques because they do not determine success or failure; rather, AARs are professional discussions of training events. Leaders and evaluators avoid lecturing participants on what went wrong. They use AARs to tell a story about what was planned, what happened during the training, why it happened, and what could have been done differently to improve performance. Leaders guide discussions to bring out important learning points, preferably by the soldiers and subordinate leaders themselves. Soldiers learn much more when they identify for themselves what went right and wrong than when lessons are dictated. AARs always-- ● Reinforce and increase the learning that took place as a result of the training exercise. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_13.htm (1 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:41 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix G After Action Reviews ● Increase soldier and leader interest and motivation (thereby enhancing learning). ● Identify and analyze both strengths and weaknesses. ● Involve all participants. ● Guide toward achieving learning objectives. ● Link lessons learned to subsequent training. TYPES OF AFTER ACTION REVIEWS There are basically two types of AARs-- formal and informal. Formal AARs require more detailed planning, preparation, and resources. They are normally scheduled and conducted as a part of external and internal evaluations. Informal AARs require less planning and preparation than formal AARs and are often on-the-spot reviews of soldier and collective training performance at crew, squad, or platoon level. FORMAL Formal AARs are normally conducted at company level and above. However, when a training event is focused at squad or platoon level, and resources are available, a formal AAR may be conducted to gain maximum training benefit. Externally evaluated lane training, small-unit ARTEPs, and tank and BFV gunnery tables are prime examples. Informal crew, squad, and platoon AARs are held prior to company and higher-echelon AARs. The AAR facilitator (evaluator or controller) provides an exercise overview and leads a discussion of events and activities that focuses on the training objectives. The discussion with leaders and soldiers should orient on the use of terrain integration of key BOS, and leader actions. The discussion should also examine the weapons systems and doctrine used by the enemy during the exercise. At the close, the AAR leader summarizes comments from the observers, covering strengths and weaknesses discussed during the AAR and what the unit needs to do to fix the weaknesses. INFORMAL Informal AARs are usually conducted for soldier and crew-, squad-, and platoon-level training or when resources are not available to conduct a formal review. They are often held for lower echelons prior to a formal company- or higher-level AAR. Informal AARs may also be conducted at company level. Informal AARs are extremely important since they involve all soldiers and leaders in the participating unit. The formal company AARs for the training event depend on these thorough, informal reviews. Informal AARs are conducted similar to formal AARs and may be done for large or small units. They may be scheduled, or leaders may do on-the-spot reviews during the training. Discussion comments could be recorded to use in follow-on AARs or to apply immediately the lessons learned as the exercise is repeated. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_13.htm (2 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:41 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix G After Action Reviews AAR PLANNING, PREPARATION, AND CONDUCT Formal and informal AARs follow the same general sequence. Leaders must plan and prepare before they can conduct an effective AAR. The amount of planning and preparation depends on the type of AAR to be conducted and the resources available. The general sequence to use in planning, preparing, and conducting an AAR is shown in Figure G-1. PLANNING Leaders conducting an AAR must ensure it accomplishes its objective to promote learning. Through planning, leaders provide the foundation for a successful AAR and create a positive climate for training and evaluating subordinate soldiers, leaders, and units. Figure G-1. An example AAR plan is at Figure G-2. As a minimum, the plan should include-- ● Who will observe the training and conduct the AAR. ● What the observers should evaluate (T&EO). ● Who is to attend the AAR. ● When and where the AAR will be conducted. ● What training aids will be used during the AAR. Select Observer-Controllers Those selected for observer-controllers should not be involved in the training. They should not have other duties which detract from their observation and evaluation of the training. If this cannot be done, the chain of command should evaluate subordinate elements and conduct the AARs. Squad leaders should evaluate their soldiers' performance and limit the AAR discussion to their actions. Platoon leaders would do the same for their squads; the company, for their platoons, and so on. Selected observers must be-- ● Able to perform the tasks to be trained. ● Experienced in the duties they are to evaluate. ● Knowledgeable in the current doctrine. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_13.htm (3 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:41 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix G After Action Reviews If external observers are used, they should be of at least equal rank to the leader of the unit being evaluated. However, if choosing between experience and rank becomes necessary, experience is better. A sergeant who has experience as a TOW section leader can evaluate the section better than a platoon sergeant who has no TOW experience. Leaders must also plan to train their observers. Each observer conducts the AAR for the element he observes and provides input to the AAR for the next higher echelon. In addition, observers themselves must be observed as they observe soldier or collective training. After observers conduct their AARs, leaders should conduct an AAR for them to improve their techniques and procedures. If possible, observers should accompany and assist an experienced AAR leader and sit in on other AARs whenever possible. Observer-controllers must be familiar with the unit's METL or soldier and collective tasks they will be observing. Moreover, they must know the training objectives and be proficient in the tasks themselves. By knowing up front what the training involves, observers can concentrate on the specific tasks considered to be mission essential and provide critical feedback concerning the unit's performance. Identify Participants The commander specifies who must attend each AAR. The AAR leader may recommend additional participants, based on specific observations. They select as many participants, to include the OPFOR leaders, as can reasonably be handled at the AAR site. At each echelon, the AAR will have its own primary set of participants. At crew, squad, and platoon level, everyone should attend and participate. At the company level, this may not be practical. Insufficient space at the AAR site or the ongoing training mission may preclude some unit soldiers from attending. In this case, leaders and key players may be the only participants. The OPFOR can provide valuable feedback on the training based on observations from their perspectives. While the unit's leaders and evaluators see the training from one point of view, the OPFOR can provide healthy insights on-- ● OPFOR doctrine and plans. ● The unit's actions. ● OPFOR reactions to what the unit did. Plan Stopping Points An observer cannot see everything each soldier does during an exercise; likewise, for other than a brief exercise, the observer cannot review the entire exercise at one AAR. In planning training, leaders must allow time to conduct AARs as an integrated part of the training. Additional time for an AAR at the end of each essential task or major event is necessary. Stopping points should be planned; for example, after a unit arrives at a new position or after it consolidates on an objective. AARs should be conducted as soon as possible after the event and before another operation begins. For http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_13.htm (4 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:41 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix G After Action Reviews planning purposes, leaders should allow approximately one hour for platoon-level AARs and one and one-half to two hours for company and higher-level AARs. The additional time required to conduct the AARs may result in fewer missions or drills. The increased effectiveness of training, however, will more than make up for this loss of training time. With AARs, soldiers receive better feedback on their performance and remember lessons learned longer. Plan Training Aids Training aids add to the AAR's effectiveness, but they must be carefully selected and requested well in advance. They must support the training discussion and not distract. Training aids should be large enough, and positioned, so that everyone can see. Models of units, vehicles, and personnel make discussions clearer. If models are used, leaders should move them on the terrain board or map as they discuss the unit's actions. Unit graphic control symbols should be included on the terrain model or on a centrally positioned sketch map. Slides, TV tapes, and other media may also be appropriate. All aids used should be professional and complement the dialogue. Leaders can enhance selection of training aids by using the TASC catalog. To make a preliminary choice, they should ask the following questions: ● What points will I need to make during the AAR? ● Will the aid illustrate one or more of the points? ● Can the actual terrain or equipment be used? ● Does the aid have any restrictions or requirements, such as additional generators? Figure G-2. ● Will the participants be able to see and hear it? ● Is the aid really necessary to the discussion? Asking the questions above will help eliminate unnecessary aids and assist leaders in selecting those which will best contribute to the AAR. The final step in the planning of training aids is to request them from the TASC or their appropriate sources. PREPARATION Select and Organize Sites for AARs http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_13.htm (5 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:41 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix G After Action Reviews Planning several potential AAR sites throughout an exercise area can reduce the preparation time. It allows equipment to be prepositioned and the layout to be diagramed. Prepositioning allows for shorter movement time to the selected site; the diagram permits the setup to begin before the AAR leader arrives. In most cases, the AAR will be conducted at the training site, but this may not always be possible. As leaders plan their training and training sites, they should watch for areas that could be used for the AAR. These sites should be close to the training site with space for the participants to gather in easy sight and hearing range of the AAR leader. The site should be as free as possible from outside distractions during the AAR. An AAR held in the middle of an active maintenance area may distract more than benefit unless that is the activity being reviewed. Leaders should also plan sites that can support any special requirements of the training aids to be used. AAR sites should be quiet, protected places where soldiers can feel relatively comfortable. They should be clean, orderly, and well lit. Coffee, soup, and juice can help create the proper atmosphere, especially after time in the field during night or adverse weather conditions. Ideally, the site should overlook the exercise area. As a minimum, training aids, sand tables, and maps should be available to reinforce the discussion. Organize the AAR Discussion Prior to conducting an AAR, leaders need a plan for organizing and rehearsing. To do this, they should develop a discussion outline before the training and further develop it as the training progresses. The AAR leader should put notes and observations from the training in chronological sequence; then he should select the most critical ones and sequence them as they relate to the exercise training objectives. The AAR may be organized as follows: ● Introduction. ● Presentation of commander's and OPFOR's plan. ● Summary of recent events. ● Discussion of key issues. ● Analysis of key BOS (what happened when the battle was joined). ● Discussion of training to sustain or improve. ● Conclusion. CONDUCT OF THE AAR The following is an example of the conduct of an AAR. Squads have just finished an FTX which the platoon leader observed and evaluated. He has completed his AAR preparation and squad leaders have assembled the http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_13.htm (6 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:41 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix G After Action Reviews soldiers. Before starting the AAR, the platoon leader must ensure all participants are present and ready. The soldier who is absent or late may have information critical to reconstructing what happened. The platoon leader must insist that all key players attend, to include OPFOR leaders. The AAR must not start until the leadership accounts for all players. The AAR leader provides the focus for the AAR by briefly restating the specific exercise or training objectives. Next, he has a squad leader summarize the OPORD. This encourages unit participation. Another technique is to have each squad leader restate a portion of the OPORD. From this point on, the AAR leader guides the discussion, keeping the focus on the objectives and in a logical sequence. The most difficult task for an AAR leader is to avoid turning the discussion into a critique or lecture. He can avoid this pitfall by entering the discussion only when necessary. Initially, he should only ask questions--why certain actions were taken, how personnel reacted to situations, and when actions were initiated. He must limit his input to sustaining the AAR, guiding the discussion back to the right track, or bringing out new points. Techniques which will help the AAR leader guide the discussion follow: ● Ask leading and thought-provoking questions that focus on the training objectives. Ask squad leaders what METT-T factors influenced their decisions. ● Have the unit members describe what happened in their own words and from their own point of view. They should be free to discuss not only what took place, but also why it took place. ● Relate tactical events to subsequent results. ● Explore alternative courses of action that might have been more effective. (How could you have done it better?) ● Avoid detailed examination of events not directly related to major training objectives unless the squad leader wants to go into greater detail. Discuss Leader Mistakes Many times the discussion must focus on leader mistakes. This discussion should be frank, but without embarrassing leaders involved. The positive must be emphasized so that lessons can be learned without destroying confidence or respect. The AAR leader should ask the leader why he chose a particular course of action or what factors of METT-T influenced him; others can learn from a mistake and gain an appreciation for the difficulties involved in leading. Perhaps some key information was missing because a subordinate leader or soldier didn't think it was important. Unit members must be reminded that in combat they too can become leaders, so they must learn to make decisions. Use Appropriate Training Aids http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_13.htm (7 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:41 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix G After Action Reviews Training aids can significantly contribute to the AAR discussion if they have been carefully selected. They must not distract from the AAR. For example, a detailed and done-to-scale terrain table showing the terrain where the FTX was conducted would be inappropriate if the AAR site had a view of the actual terrain. Some keys to the successful use of training aids follow: ● Use the actual terrain whenever possible. ● When using terrain models and maps, orient the participants to the key terrain. Use the correct symbols and graphics on maps and overlays. ● When using video and voice recordings, ensure all participants can see and hear. ● Use charts to emphasize kill ratios or other data that need to be discussed. Following are ways training aids can be used in the discussion of the FTX: ● Use actual terrain as a terrain table and require the participants to point out where specific actions occurred. ● Use voice recordings of radio nets to reveal unclear FRAGOs issued as well as COMSEC violations. ● Use a chart of artillery missions fired to reveal inadequate smoke usage when disengaging. Summarize the AAR Once all the key points have been discussed and linked to future training, the AAR leader should leave the immediate area and allow the unit leader and soldiers the opportunity to discuss the events in private. The unit leader will decide when to end the AAR. The AAR process involves several leader functions requiring skill, training, and good judgment. Leaders observe performance, then evaluate the quality of what they see. They decide which of their observations to include in the AAR and what questions to ask. They ask open ended questions to ensure the discussion causes soldiers to compare their own performance with established Army standards. AARs tend to treat poor performance in great detail and focus on what happened and why. Trainers try not to unduly damage self- esteem or cohesion. To do so would be contrary to the AAR's goal of improving performance. By the end of the AAR, soldiers must clearly understand what was good, bad, and average about their performances. The art of the after action review process is to get soldiers to accurately grade their own performances. Self rendered grading will be more meaningful than a judgment issued by the trainer or AAR leader. However, soldiers must know where they stand. Thus, in some cases, the leader may need to clearly dictate (tell the participants) his findings. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_13.htm (8 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:41 PM] FM 25-101 Appendix G After Action Reviews http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_13.htm (9 of 9) [1/11/2002 3:17:41 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions GLOSSARY AA assembly area AAR after action review AC Active Component acq acquisition Active Component that portion of the US Army in which organizations are comprised of personnel on full-time duty in active military service of the United States. active duty training a tour of duty for training Reserve Component soldiers. The soldier must be under orders to return to nonactive duty status when the ADT period is completed. AD air defense ADA air defense artillery ADC area damage control after action review a method of providing feedback to units by involving participants in the training diagnostic process in order to increase and reinforce learning. The AAR leader guides participants in identifying deficiencies and seeking solutions. air defense battlefield operating system all measures designed to nullify or reduce the effectiveness of attack by hostile aircraft or missiles after they are airborne. A/L administrative and logistics ALICE all purpose, lightweight individual carrying equipment ALO air liaison officer http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (1 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY AMTP Army mission training plan ANCOC Advanced NCO Course annual training the minimal period of annual active duty training a member performs to satisfy the annual training requirements associated with a Reserve Component assignment. It may be performed during one consecutive period or in increments of one or more days, depending upon mission requirements. ap antipersonnel APFT Army Physical Fitness Test APOE aerial port of embarkation AR Army regulation ar armor ARCOM Army Reserve Command Army regulation Army publications that establish policies and responsibilities and prescribe the administrative procedures necessary to implement policies. They do not contain historical information; they are permanent publications and remain in effect until changed, replaced, or rescinded. ARNG Army National Guard ARTBASS Army Training Battle Simulation System ARTEP Army Training and Evaluation Program ASI additional skill identifier aslt assault assessment an analysis of the effectiveness of a unit, activity, or force. asst assistant; assistance AT annual training http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (2 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY at antitank ATGM antitank guided missile atk attack ATLS advanced trauma life support ATP ammunition transfer point AVIM aviation intermediate maintenance AVLB armored vehicle launched bridge avn aviation AXP ambulance exchange point az azimuth BAS battalion aid station BASD basic active service date battle book a graphic portrayal of how to accomplish the force's wartime mission. battlefield operating systems the major functions occurring on the battlefield and performed by the force to successfully execute operations. The seven systems are: (1) intelligence, (2) maneuver, (3) fire support, (4) mobility, countermobility, survivability, (5) air defense, (6) combat service support, and (7) command and control. Nuclear, biological, and chemical must be integrated throughout each of the BOS. battle focus the process of deriving peacetime training requirements from wartime missions. battle roster a listing of individuals, crews, or elements that reflects capabilities, proficiencies of critical tasks, and other information concerning war fighting abilities. battle staff the organic battalion primary and special staff, plus task-organized slice (CS and CSS) unit leaders. battle task a task which must be accomplished by a subordinate organization if the next higher headquarters is to accomplish a mission essential task. Battle tasks are selected by the senior commander http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (3 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY from the subordinate organization's METL. BBS brigade battalion simulation BCOC base cluster operations center BCPC Bradley crew proficiency course bde brigade BFV Bradley fighting vehicle BGST Bradley gunners' skills test BII basic issue item BMNT beginning (of) morning nautical twilight bn battalion BNCOC Basic NCO Course BOS battlefield operating systems BP battle position BSA brigade support area BSEP basic skills education program BSX battle simulation exercise BT Bradley table btl battle btry battery C2 command and control C3 command, control, and communications http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (4 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY CALFEX combined arms live fire exercise CAPSTONE program that aligns AC and RC units to meet the total Army's wartime requirements. The alignments are tailored specifically to each war plan. This allows for detailed theater planning and provides the basis for commanders to enter cohesive planning and training association with their designated wartime commands. It also is the basis of allocation of resources by the peacetime chain of command to meet wartime training requirements. CAS close air support cav cavalry CBS corps battle simulation, previously known as JESS cbt combat cdr commander CEOI communications-electronic operating instructions CEP commander's evaluation program CEV combat engineer vehicle CEWI combat electronic warfare and intelligence CFX command field exercise CG commanding general chem chemical CHOT comprehensive hands on test CIP command inspection program CLS combat lifesaver cmd command http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (5 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY CMF career management field co company COFT conduct-of-fire trainer combat service support battlefield operating system the support and assistance provided to sustain forces, primarily in the fields of logistics, personnel services, and health services. Combat Training Center Program an Army program established to provide realistic joint service and combined arms training in accordance with Army doctrine. It is designed to provide training units opportunities to increase collective proficiency on the most realistic battlefield available during peacetime. The four components of the CTC Program are: (1) the National Training Center, (2) the Combat Maneuver Training Center, (3) the Joint Readiness Training Center, (4) the Battle Command Training Program. combined arms live fire exercise high-cost resource-intensive exercises in which player units move or maneuver and employ organic and supporting weapons systems using full service ammunition with attendant integration of all combat, CS, and CSS functions. combined arms and services training collective training which is jointly conducted by associated combat arms, combat support, and combat service support units. combined training exercise a training exercise that is conducted by military forces of more than one nation. COMEX communications exercise command field exercise a field training exercise with reduced troop and vehicle density, but with full command and control and CSS units. command post exercise a medium-cost, medium overhead exercise in which the forces are simulated that may be conducted from garrison locations or between participating headquarters. command training guidance the long-range planning document published by division and brigades (or equivalents) in the AC and RC to prescribe future training and related activities. comp competition COMSEC communications security http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (6 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY concurrent training scheduled training designed to train groups of soldiers simultaneously on different tasks. These tasks may or may not be related. For example, a leader may subdivide the unit at a rifle range into firing orders. Soldiers who are not firing may train on preliminary marksmanship instruction, target detection, soldier decontamination procedures, or map reading. cons consolidate CONUSA the numbered armies in the continental United States COSCOM corps support command CP command post CPOG chemical protective overgarment CPR cardiovascular pulmonary resuscitation CPT captain CPX command post exercise CS combat support CSC Command and Staff College CSM command sergeant major CSS combat service support CTA common table of allowances CTC combat training center CTG command training guidance CTT common task training CTX combined training exercise DA Department of the Army http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (7 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY decon decontamination def defend; defense deployment exercise (DEPEX) an exercise which provides training for soldiers, units, and support agencies in the tasks and procedures for deploying from home stations or installations to potential areas of hostilities. det determine dev development DISCOM division support command dismt dismounted div division DIVARTY division artillery doctrine fundamental principles by which military forces guide their actions in support of objectives. It is authoritative, but requires judgment in application. DOR date of rank DS direct support EAP emergency action procedures ECCM electronic counter-countermeasures ECM electronic countermeasures EDRE emergency deployment readiness exercise EENT end (of) evening nautical twilight EFMB Expert Field Medic Badge EIB Expert Infantry Badge http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (8 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY electronic counter-countermeasures that division of electronic warfare involving actions taken to ensure friendly effective use of the electromagnetic spectrum despite the enemy's use of electronic warfare. electronic warfare military action involving the use of electromagnetic energy to determine, exploit, reduce, or prevent hostile use of the electromagnetic spectrum. ENDEX end of exercise engr engineer EPW enemy prisoner of war ERB enlisted record brief ETM extension training materiel ETS expiration term of service evac evacuate; evacuation eval evaluate; evaluator EW electronic warfare EWOC electronic warfare operations course EXEVAL external evaluation 1SG first sergeant FA field artillery FCX fire coordination exercise FDC fire direction center FEBA forward edge of the battle area field training exercise high-cost, high-overhead exercise conducted under simulated combat conditions in the field. It exercises command and control of all echelons in battle functions against actual or http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (9 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY simulated opposing forces. fire coordination exercise a medium-cost, reduced-scale exercise that can be conducted at platoon, company team, or battalion task force level. It exercises command and control skills through the integration of all organic weapon systems, as well as indirect and supporting fires. Weapon densities may be reduced for participating units, and subcaliber devices substituted for service ammunition. fire support battlefield operating system the collective and coordinated use of target acquisition data, indirect fire weapons, armed aircraft (less attack helicopters), and other lethal and nonlethal means against ground targets in support of maneuver force operations. FIST fire support team FM field manual FO forward observer force integration the process of incorporating new doctrine, equipment, and force structure into an organization while simultaneously sustaining the highest possible levels of combat readiness. FORSCOM US Army Forces Command FPW firing port weapon FRAGO fragmentary order FSB forward support battalion FSO fire support officer FSOP field standing operating procedures FTX field training exercise FY fiscal year GDP general defense plan goal an achievement toward which effort is directed. GOCOM US Army Reserve General Officer Command http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (10 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY GPS gunner's primary sight grp group GRREG graves registration GSR ground surveillance radar GTA graphic training aid hel helicopter HEMTT heavy expanded mobility tactical truck HET heavy equipment transporter HHC headquarters and headquarters company HHD headquarters and headquarters detachment HIV human immunodeficiency virus how howitzer hq headquarters hr hour ht height hvy heavy IAW in accordance with IBBS interim brigade battalion simulation ID identification IDT inactive duty training IET initial entry training http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (11 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY IG inspector general inactive duty training authorized training performed by an RC member not on active duty or active duty for training, and consisting of regularly scheduled unit training assemblies, additional training assemblies, or equivalent training periods. indiv individual inf infantry insp inspection int intelligence intelligence battlefield operating system the collection of functions that generate knowledge of the enemy, weather, and geographical features required by a commander in planning and conducting combat operations. INTSUM intelligence summary IPB intelligence preparation of the battlefield ITEP Individual Training and Evaluation Program ITL individual task list Janus an event-driven simulation that models fighting systems as entities (such as tank, helicopter) used to train platoon through brigade. JESS joint exercise support system JTX joint training exercise lane training a technique for training company/team-level and smaller units on a series of selected soldier, leader, and collective tasks (STXs) using specific terrain. LBE load bearing equipment LCX logistical coordination exercise ldr leader http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (12 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY leader book a leader tool maintained at crew level and above for recording and tracking soldier proficiency on mission-oriented tasks. LET launch effects trainer LFX live fire exercise logistics exercise (LOGEX) an exercise which concentrates on training tasks associated with the combat service support battlefield operating system. LOGPAC logistical package LOI letter of instruction LP listening post LT lieutenant LTA local training area MACOM major Army command main battle area that portion of the battlefield extending rearward from the forward edge of the battle area and in which the decisive battle is fought to defeat the enemy. maint maintenance mand mandatory maneuver battlefield operating system the employment of forces on the battlefield through movement and direct fires, in combination with fire support, to achieve a position of advantage in respect to enemy ground forces in order to accomplish the mission. map exercise (MAPEX) low-cost, low-overhead training exercise that portrays military situations on maps and overlays that may be supplemented with terrain models and sand tables. It enables commanders to train their staffs in performing essential integrating and control functions under simulated wartime conditions. MASCAL mass casualty http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (13 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY MBA main battle area MCOFT mobile conduct-of-fire trainer mech mechanized med medium MEDEVAC medical evacuation mem member METL mission essential task list METT-T mission, enemy, terrain, troops, and time available MG major general mg machine gun MI military intelligence mil military MILES Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement System mission the primary task assigned to an individual, unit, or force. It usually contains the elements of who, what, when, where, and the reasons therefore, but seldom specifies how. mission essential task a collective task in which an organization must be proficient to accomplish an appropriate portion of its wartime mission(s). mission essential task list a compilation of collective mission essential tasks which must be successfully performed if an organization is to accomplish its wartime mission. mission training plan descriptive training document which provides units a clear description of what and how to train to achieve wartime mission proficiency. MTPs elaborate on wartime missions in terms of comprehensive training and evaluation outlines. They provide exercise concepts and related training management aids to assist field commanders in the planning and execution of effective unit training. MKT mobile kitchen trailer http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (14 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY MLRS multiple launch rocket system mm millimeter MMC materiel management center MMT miniature moving target mo month(s) mob mobilization MOBEX mobilization exercise mobility, countermobility, and survivability (M/CM/S) battlefield operating system the capability of the force permitting freedom of movement relative to the enemy while retaining the ability to fulfill its primary mission. The mobility, countermobility, and survivability BOS also include those measures that the force takes to remain viable and functional by protection from the effects of enemy weapons systems and natural occurrences. MOI memorandum of instruction MOPP mission-oriented protection posture mort mortar MOS military occupational specialty mov movement MP military police MQS military qualification standards MRA maneuver rights area MRB motorized rifle battalion MRC motorized rifle company http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (15 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY MRE meals ready to eat MRR motorized rifle regiment MSB main support battalion MSE mobile subscriber equipment MSG master sergeant MST maintenance support team mt mounted MTA major training area MTEP mission training evaluation plan mtg meeting MTOE modification table of organization and equipment MTP mission training plan multiechelon training the simultaneous conduct of different exercises by a unit, or the training of different tasks by elements of the unit. Multiechelon training occurs whenever collective training is being conducted. Any time training above soldier level is going on, multiechelon training is being done. multiple unit training assembly a training assembly that consists of more than one 4-hour session. For example, a MUTA-4 consists of at least 8 hours training on Saturday and Sunday, for a total of 16 or more hours of training. MUSARC Major United States Army Reserve Command MUTA multiple unit training assembly NA not applicable NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization NBC nuclear, biological, chemical http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (16 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY NCO noncommissioned officer NCOES Noncommissioned Officer Education System NCOIC noncommissioned officer in charge NET new equipment training NLT not later than NMC nonmission capable NOD night observation device NSI nuclear surety inspection NWTI nuclear weapon technical inspection OAC Officer Advanced Course OBC Officer Basic Course objectives concrete, measurable steps, or milestones, usually taken in sequence to achieve a goal. observer-controller (OC) an individual tasked to evaluate training, and provide administrative control and constructive feedback to participants during a training exercise. ODTS optical discrimination and tracking system off offense OJT on-the-job training OP observation post op operation; operator operating tempo the annual operating miles or hours for the major equipment system in a battalion-level or equivalent organization. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (17 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY OPTEMPO is used by commanders to forecast and allocate funds for fuel and repair parts for training events and programs. OPFOR opposing force OPLAN operations plan OPORD operations order opportunity training training conducted by section, squad, team, or crew-level leaders which is preselected, planned, and rehearsed, but not executed until unexpected training time becomes available; for example, when waiting for transportation, or completing scheduled training early, or when a break occurs in a training exercise. OPSEC operations security OPTEMPO operating tempo ORB officer record brief organizational assessment a process used by Army senior leaders to analyze and correlate evaluations or various functional systems, such as training, logistics, personnel, and force integration, to determine an organization's capability to accomplish its wartime mission. ORP objective rally point "P" needs practice pam pamphlet pc personnel carrier PCS permanent change of station performance-oriented training training that involves learning by doing. Performance to standard is required. performance test performance of a task under test conditions that is evaluated on a go/no-go basis using stated standards. Performance tests are based on the training objective. PEWS platoon early warning system http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (18 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY PFC private first class PGE preliminary gunners examination pkg package PLDC Primary Leader Development Course plt platoon PMCS preventive maintenance checks and services PMOS primary military occupational specialty POM preparation for oversea movement pos position precombat checks detailed final checks that all units conduct before and during combat operations. pre-execution checks the informal planning and detailed coordination conducted during preparation for training. prerequisite training skills or knowledge that individuals must have before beginning to learn a task. preventive maintenance checks and services prescribed maintenance procedures found in an operator- level, item-specific technical manual (TM-10), and performed by the operator before, during, and after operating a piece of equipment. PSG platoon sergeant PT physical training PULHES physical profile serial code (numerical) PVT private PW prisoner of war QTB quarterly training briefing http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (19 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY QTC quarterly training calendar qtr quarter qtrly quarterly qual qualification quarterly training briefing a conference conducted by AC division commanders to approve the short- range plans of battalion commanders. quarterly training guidance (QTG) an AC training management document published at each level from battalion to division that addresses a three-month planning period. The QTG adjusts, as required, and further develops the training guidance contained in long-range plans, to include specific training objectives for each major training event. RC Reserve Components rd road REC radioelectronic combat REFORGER return of force to Germany refresher training training conducted to train again a task with soldiers or units who have previously been proficient but require a reorientation to a task, to include a walkthrough. Refresher training is conducted prior to sustainment training. regt regiment reorg reorganize reqmt requirement res resuscitation Reserve Components individuals and units assigned to the Army National Guard or the US Army Reserve who are not in active service but are subject to call to active duty. reverse cycle training training which reverses the normal duty day so that training takes place during http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (20 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY periods of reduced or limited visibility. RG readiness group ROE rules of engagement ROTC Reserve Officers' Training Corps RSOP readiness standing operating procedures S1 adjutant S2 intelligence officer S3 operations officer S4 supply officer saf safety SATS Standard Army Training System SAW squad automatic weapon sec section sep separate SFC sergeant first class SGT sergeant sig signal SIMNET simulations networking situational training exercise a mission-related, limited exercise designed to train one collective task, or a group of related tasks or drills, through practice. SKAs skills, knowledge, and attitudes http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (21 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY SL skill level slice a term used to describe a grouping of combat arms, combat support, and combat service support units which are task-organized for wartime missions or are habitually associated for peacetime training. SM soldier's manual SMOS secondary military occupational specialty SOF special operating forces SOI signal operation instructions SOP standing operating procedure SPC specialist SPOE seaport of embarkation spt support sqd squad sqdn squadron S&S supply and service SSG staff sergeant SSN social security number Standard Army Training System database software that integrates the automation of unit METLs, the commander's assessment of proficiency, AMTPs, and training management administration. stand-to a full alert posture normally assumed from 30 minutes before until 30 minutes after BMNT and EENT. All soldiers are in their fighting positions or vehicles and ready for combat operations. STARC state area command STARTEX start of exercise http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (22 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY STP soldier training publication STX situational training exercise sustainment training training required to maintain the minimum acceptable level of proficiency or capability required to accomplish a training objective. SWOT Senior Warrant Officer Training "T" trained TAB target acquisition battery tac tactical tactical exercise without troops a low-cost, low-overhead exercise conducted in the field on actual terrain suitable for training units for specific missions. It is used to train subordinate leaders and battle staffs on terrain analysis and unit and weapons emplacement. It also trains on planning the execution of the unit mission. TADSS training aids, devices, simulators, and simulations TAG The Adjutant General TASC Training and Audiovisual Support Center TASC catalogs training aids, films, and devices available in TASC system. task a clearly defined and measurable activity accomplished by soldiers and units. Tasks are specific activities which contribute to the accomplishment of encompassing missions or other requirements. TAV technical assistance visit TC training circular; tank commander TCF tactical combat forces TCGST tank crew gunnery skill test TCPC tank crew proficiency course http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (23 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY TDA tables of distribution and allowances tech technical technical bulletins technical information on weapons, equipment, and professional techniques. T&EO training and evaluation outline TEWT tactical exercise without troops TF task force tgt target threat doctrine tactical and strategic doctrine of enemy forces. tm team TMT transportation motor transport tng training TO training objective TOC tactical operation center TOE table(s) of organization and equipment TOW tube-launched, optically tracked, wire-guided TRADOC US Army Training and Doctrine Command training the instruction of personnel to individually and collectively increase their capacity to perform specific military functions and tasks. Training and Audiovisual Support Center an organization that maintains and provides TADSS. training and evaluation outline a summary document prepared for each training activity that provides information on collective training objectives, related individual training objectives, resource requirements, and applicable evaluation procedures. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (24 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY training management the process used by Army leaders to identify training requirements and subsequently plan, resource, execute, and evaluate training. training meeting a periodic meeting conducted by platoon, company, and battalion key leaders to review past training, plan and prepare future training, and exchange timely training information between participants. training objective a statement that describes the desired outcome of a training activity. A training objective consists of the following three parts: (1) Task. A clearly defined and measurable activity accomplished by individuals or organizations. (2) Condition(s). The circumstances and environment in which a task is to be performed. (3) Standard. The minimum acceptable proficiency required in the performance of a particular training task. training requirements the difference between demonstrated and desired levels of proficiency for mission essential or battle tasks. training resources those resources (human, physical, financial, and time) used to support training. They may be controlled by an organization or externally controlled by a headquarters that allocates their use to units as required. training schedule a document prepared at company level that specifies the who, what, when, and where of training to be conducted by the unit. training strategy the method used to attain desired levels of training proficiency on mission essential tasks. TRP target reference point trp troop TSFO tactical simulations forward observer TSOP tactical standing operating procedure TTP tactics, techniques, and procedures TVI technical validation inspection "U" untrained UCOFT unit conduct-of-fire trainer http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (25 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 GLOSSARY unit training assembly an authorized and scheduled period of unit inactive duty training at least four hours in length. USAR US Army Reserve UTA unit training assembly VGT viewgraph transparency vis visual VISMOD visual modification weaponeer a mobile, automated, reduced-scale individual marksmanship trainer contained in a modified cargo van. wpn weapon wt weight XO executive officer yearly training briefing (YTB) a conference conducted by RC division commanders to approve the short-range plans of battalion commanders. yearly training guidance (YTG) an RC training management document published at each level from battalion to division that addresses a one-year planning period. The YTG adjusts, as required, and further develops the training guidance contained in long-range plans, to include specific training objectives for each major training event. YTC yearly training calendar http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_14.htm (26 of 26) [1/11/2002 3:17:46 PM] FM 25-101 REFERENCES RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions REFERENCES SOURCES USED These are the sources quoted or paraphrased in this publication. Army Publications ARTEP 5-145-DRILL. Engineer Battle Drills and Crew Drills. 07 April 1989. ARTEP 5-145-MTP. Mission Training Plan for the Headquarters and Headquarters Company, Engineer Battalion, Heavy Division/Corps. 17 February 1989. ARTEP 5-145-11-MTP. Mission Training Plan for the Combat Engineer Platoon, Heavy Division/Corps/Armored Cavalry Regiment. 17 February 1989. ARTEP 5-145-31-MTP. Mission Training Plan for the Engineer Company, Heavy Division/ Corps/Armored Cavalry Regiment. 17 February 1989. ARTEP 6-300-1. Corps Field Artillery Section, Division Artillery and Field Artillery Brigade, TACFIRE. 16 September 1985. ARTEP 7-8-DRILL. Battle Drills for the Infantry Rifle Platoon and Squad. October 1989. ARTEP 7-8-MTP. Mission Training Plan for the Infantry Rifle Platoon and Squad. 30 September 1988. ARTEP 7-30-MTP. Mission Training Plan for the Infantry Brigade (Command Group/Staff). 17 February 1989. ARTEP 17-237-10-MTP. Mission Training Plan for Tank Platoon. 03 October 1989. ARTEP 19-176-MTP. Mission Training Plan for Headquarters and Headquarters Detachment, Military Police Battalion. 29 March 1990. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_15.htm (1 of 3) [1/11/2002 3:17:48 PM] FM 25-101 REFERENCES ARTEP 42-004-30-MTP. Mission Training Plan for Supply Company, Forward Support Battalion, Armored and Mechanized Divisions. 17 February 1989. ARTEP 55-188-30-DRILL. Battle Drills for Transportation Motor Transport Company, Main Support Battalion, Heavy Division. 09 May 1989. ARTEP 63-001-MTP. Mission Training Plan for Division Support Command Headquarters/ Division Material Management Center. 25 August 1989. ARTEP 63-005-MTP. Mission Training Plan for Battalion Headquarters, Forward Support Battalion Heavy/Motorized Division. 03 October 1988. ARTEP 71-1-MTP. Mission Training Plan for Tank and Mechanized Infantry Company Team. 03 October 1988. ARTEP 71-2-MTP. Mission Training Plan for the Tank and Mechanized Infantry Battalion Task Force. 03 October 1988. ARTEP 71-3-MTP. Mission Training Plan for the Heavy Brigade Command Group and Staff. 03 October 1988. ARTEP 71-100-MTP. Mission Training Plan, Division Command Group and Staff. Approved Final Draft. 1 May 1990. DA Pam 25-37. Index of Army Graphic Training Aids. 28 September 1988. DA Pam 25-90. Visual Information Products Catalog. 30 June 1988. DA Pam 350-9. Index and Description of Army Training Devices. 09 December 1988. DA Pam 350-38. Training Standards in Weapon Training. 09 September 1988. DA Pam 350-100. Extension Training Materials Consolidated MOS Catalog. 15 February 1989. FM 17-15. Tank Platoon. 07 October 1987. FM 17-97. Regimental Armored Cavalry Troop. 27 September 1988. FM 33-1. Psychological Operations. 31 July 1987. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_15.htm (2 of 3) [1/11/2002 3:17:48 PM] FM 25-101 REFERENCES FM 101-5. Staff Organization and Operations. 25 May 1984. STP 5-12B24-SM-TG. Soldier's Manual and Trainer's Guide: 12B, Combat Engineer. 13 December 1985. STP 5-12F1-SM. Soldier's Manual, MOS 12F, Engineer Tracked Vehicle Crewman, Skill Level 1. 09 September 1986. STP 7-11BCHM14-SM-TG. Soldier's Manual, Skill Levels 1/2/3/4 and Trainer's Guide, CMF 11, Infantry. 30 September 1988. STP 7-11M14-SM-TG. Soldier's Manual, Skill Levels 1/2/3/4 and Trainer's Guide, MOS 11M, Fighting Vehicle Infantryman. 30 September 1988. STP 10-94B25-SM-TG. Soldier's Manual, Skill Levels 2/3/4/5 and Trainer's Guide, MOS 94B, Food Service Specialist. 22 September 1988. STP 17-19K23-SM. Soldier's Manual, Skill Levels 2/3, MOS 19K, M1/M1A1 Abrams Armor Crewman. November 1989. DOCUMENT NEEDED This document must be available to the intended users of this publication. DA Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms. February 1974. http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_15.htm (3 of 3) [1/11/2002 3:17:48 PM] FM 25-101 Authorization Letter RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions AUTHORIZATION LETTER FM 25-101 30 SEPTEMBER 1990 By Order of the Secretary of the Army: CARL E. VUONO General, United States Army Chief of Staff Official: THOMAS F. SIKORA Brigadier General, United States Army The Adjutant General DISTRIBUTION: Active Army, USAR, and ARNG. To be distributed in accordance with DA Form 12-1lE, requirements for FM 25-101, Battle Focused Training (Qty rqr block no. 4642); FM 25-100, Training the Force (Qty rqr block no. 1080); FM 25-2, Unit Training Management (Qty rqr block no. 0471 ); FM 25-3, Training in Units (Qty rqr block no. 1081 ) and TC 25-7, How to Develop TRAINING Management Skills in the Unit (Qty rqr block no. 1354). U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1992 333- 266 http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/fm251_16.htm [1/11/2002 3:17:49 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100001.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100001.gif [1/11/2002 3:24:32 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100002.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100002.gif [1/11/2002 3:24:40 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100003.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100003.gif [1/11/2002 3:25:40 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100004.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100004.gif [1/11/2002 3:25:50 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100005.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100005.gif [1/11/2002 3:25:53 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100006.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100006.gif [1/11/2002 3:25:59 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100007.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100007.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:06 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100008.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100008.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:11 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100009.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100009.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:15 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100010.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100010.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:18 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100011.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100011.gif (1 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:26:23 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100011.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100011.gif (2 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:26:23 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100012.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100012.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:29 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100013.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100013.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:32 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100014.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100014.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:36 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100015.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100015.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:42 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100016.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100016.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:47 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100017.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100017.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:50 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100018.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100018.gif [1/11/2002 3:26:55 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100019.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100019.gif [1/11/2002 3:27:01 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100020.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100020.gif [1/11/2002 3:27:05 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100021.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100021.gif [1/11/2002 3:27:11 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100022.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100022.gif [1/11/2002 3:27:16 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100023.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100023.gif [1/11/2002 3:27:20 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100024.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100024.gif [1/11/2002 3:27:24 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100025.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100025.gif [1/11/2002 3:27:29 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100026.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100026.gif [1/11/2002 3:27:34 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100027.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100027.gif [1/11/2002 3:27:40 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100028.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100028.gif [1/11/2002 3:27:54 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100029.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100029.gif [1/11/2002 3:28:09 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100030.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100030.gif [1/11/2002 3:28:13 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100031.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100031.gif [1/11/2002 3:28:20 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100032.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100032.gif [1/11/2002 3:28:37 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100033.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100033.gif [1/11/2002 3:28:42 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100034.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100034.gif [1/11/2002 3:28:46 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100035.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100035.gif [1/11/2002 3:28:52 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100036.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100036.gif [1/11/2002 3:29:01 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100037.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100037.gif [1/11/2002 3:29:06 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100038.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100038.gif [1/11/2002 3:29:14 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100039.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100039.gif [1/11/2002 3:29:18 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100040.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100040.gif [1/11/2002 3:29:21 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100041.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100041.gif [1/11/2002 3:29:25 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100042.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100042.gif [1/11/2002 3:29:28 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100043.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100043.gif [1/11/2002 3:29:32 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100044.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100044.gif [1/11/2002 3:29:36 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100045.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100045.gif [1/11/2002 3:29:42 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100046.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100046.gif [1/11/2002 3:30:00 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100047.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100047.gif [1/11/2002 3:30:14 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100048.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100048.gif [1/11/2002 3:30:19 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100049.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100049.gif [1/11/2002 3:30:23 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100050.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100050.gif [1/11/2002 3:30:30 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100055.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100055.gif [1/11/2002 3:30:38 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100056.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100056.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:11 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100057.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100057.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:14 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100058.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100058.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:17 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100059.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100059.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:20 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100060.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100060.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:26 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100061.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100061.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:31 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100062.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100062.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:34 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100063.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100063.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:36 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100064.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100064.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:40 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100065.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100065.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:47 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100066.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100066.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:50 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100067.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100067.gif [1/11/2002 3:31:54 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100068.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100068.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:00 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100069.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100069.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:03 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100070.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100070.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:06 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100071.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100071.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:12 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100072.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100072.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:16 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100073.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100073.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:27 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100074.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100074.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:30 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100075.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100075.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:34 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100076.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100076.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:44 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100077.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100077.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:50 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100078.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100078.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:54 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100079.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100079.gif [1/11/2002 3:32:57 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100081.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100081.gif [1/11/2002 3:33:07 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100082.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100082.gif [1/11/2002 3:33:15 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100083.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100083.gif [1/11/2002 3:33:26 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100084.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100084.gif [1/11/2002 3:33:30 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100085.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100085.gif [1/11/2002 3:33:36 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100086.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100086.gif [1/11/2002 3:33:43 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100087.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100087.gif [1/11/2002 3:33:52 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100088.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100088.gif [1/11/2002 3:34:01 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100089.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100089.gif [1/11/2002 3:34:04 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Figures 4-7 RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions Figure 4-7. TF execution and evaluation plan. Figure 4-7 (continued). Figure 4-7 (continued). Figure 4-7 (continued). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/FCHPT4-7.HTM [1/11/2002 3:34:09 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Figures 4-8 RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions Figure 4-8. TF 1-77 pre-FTX activities. Figure 4-8 (continued). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/FCHPT4-8.HTM [1/11/2002 3:34:50 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100096.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100096.gif [1/11/2002 3:35:04 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100097.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100097.gif [1/11/2002 3:35:14 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100098.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100098.gif [1/11/2002 3:35:22 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100099.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100099.gif [1/11/2002 3:35:31 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100100.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100100.gif [1/11/2002 3:36:28 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100101.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100101.gif [1/11/2002 3:36:37 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100102.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100102.gif [1/11/2002 3:36:46 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100103.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100103.gif [1/11/2002 3:36:53 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter4 Figures 4-17 RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions Figure 4-17. Engineer Battalion execution and evaluation plan. Figure 4-17 (continued). Figure 4-17 (continued). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/FCHP4-17.HTM [1/11/2002 3:36:57 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100107.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100107.gif [1/11/2002 3:37:42 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100108.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100108.gif [1/11/2002 3:37:53 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100109.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100109.gif [1/11/2002 3:37:56 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100110.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100110.gif [1/11/2002 3:38:02 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100111.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100111.gif [1/11/2002 3:38:30 PM] FM 25-101 Chapter 4 Figures 4-23 RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions Figure 4-23. 1st FSB execution and evaluation plan. Figure 4-23 (continued). Figure 4-23 (continued). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/FCHP4-23.HTM [1/11/2002 3:39:34 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100115.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100115.gif [1/11/2002 3:39:59 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100116.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100116.gif [1/11/2002 3:40:48 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100117.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100117.gif [1/11/2002 3:41:01 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100118.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100118.gif [1/11/2002 3:41:38 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100119.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100119.gif [1/11/2002 3:41:45 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100120.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100120.gif [1/11/2002 3:41:52 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100121.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100121.gif [1/11/2002 3:41:59 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100122.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100122.gif [1/11/2002 3:42:04 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100123.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100123.gif [1/11/2002 3:42:10 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100124.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100124.gif [1/11/2002 3:43:54 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100125.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100125.gif [1/11/2002 3:43:59 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100126.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100126.gif (1 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:44:09 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100126.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100126.gif (2 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:44:09 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100127.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100127.gif [1/11/2002 3:44:13 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100128.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100128.gif (1 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:44:16 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100128.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100128.gif (2 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:44:16 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100130.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100130.gif [1/11/2002 3:44:24 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100131.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100131.gif [1/11/2002 3:44:28 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100129.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100129.gif [1/11/2002 3:44:36 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100132.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100132.gif [1/11/2002 3:44:44 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100133.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100133.gif [1/11/2002 3:44:48 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100134.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100134.gif [1/11/2002 3:44:57 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100135.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100135.gif [1/11/2002 3:45:05 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100136.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100136.gif [1/11/2002 3:45:13 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100137.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100137.gif [1/11/2002 3:45:20 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100138.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100138.gif [1/11/2002 3:45:25 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100139.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100139.gif (1 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:45:58 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100139.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100139.gif (2 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:45:58 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100140.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100140.gif [1/11/2002 3:46:12 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100141.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100141.gif [1/11/2002 3:46:15 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100142.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100142.gif [1/11/2002 3:46:20 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100143.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100143.gif [1/11/2002 3:46:24 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100144.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100144.gif [1/11/2002 3:46:27 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100145.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100145.gif [1/11/2002 3:46:30 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100146.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100146.gif [1/11/2002 3:46:33 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100147.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100147.gif [1/11/2002 3:46:52 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100148.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100148.gif [1/11/2002 3:46:56 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100149.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100149.gif [1/11/2002 3:47:00 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100150.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100150.gif [1/11/2002 3:47:08 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100151.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100151.gif [1/11/2002 3:47:11 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100152.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100152.gif [1/11/2002 3:47:22 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100153.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100153.gif [1/11/2002 3:47:26 PM] FM 25-101 Appndx B Figure B-1 RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions Figure B-1. Example administrative soldier information. Figure B-1 (continued). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/FB-1.HTM [1/11/2002 3:47:34 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100155.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100155.gif [1/11/2002 3:47:42 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100156.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100156.gif [1/11/2002 3:47:57 PM] FM 25-101 APPNDX C FIGURE C-2 RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions Figure C-2. Exercise selection matrix. Figure C-2 (continued). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/FC-2.HTM [1/11/2002 3:48:05 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100159.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100159.gif (1 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:48:17 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100159.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100159.gif (2 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:48:17 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100160.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100160.gif (1 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:48:23 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100160.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100160.gif (2 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:48:23 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100161.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100161.gif (1 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:48:31 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100161.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100161.gif (2 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:48:31 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100162.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100162.gif [1/11/2002 3:48:36 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100163.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100163.gif [1/11/2002 3:48:41 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100164.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100164.gif (1 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:48:46 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100164.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100164.gif (2 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:48:46 PM] FM 25-101 FIGURE D-1 RDL Table of Document Download Homepage Contents Information Instructions Figure D-1. Figure D-1 (continued). Figure D-1 (continued). http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/FD-1.HTM [1/11/2002 3:48:54 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100168.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100168.gif [1/11/2002 3:49:02 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100166.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100166.gif [1/11/2002 3:49:12 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100167.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100167.gif [1/11/2002 3:49:15 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100165.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100165.gif [1/11/2002 3:49:19 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100169.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100169.gif [1/11/2002 3:49:28 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100170.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100170.gif [1/11/2002 3:49:35 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100171.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100171.gif [1/11/2002 3:49:49 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100172.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100172.gif [1/11/2002 3:49:59 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100173.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100173.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:14 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100174.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100174.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:18 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100175.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100175.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:21 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100176.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100176.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:24 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100177.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100177.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:28 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100178.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100178.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:31 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100179.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100179.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:35 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100180.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100180.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:39 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100181.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100181.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:41 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100182.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100182.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:45 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100183.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100183.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:48 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100184.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100184.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:52 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100185.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100185.gif [1/11/2002 3:50:58 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100186.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100186.gif [1/11/2002 3:51:01 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100187.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100187.gif [1/11/2002 3:51:04 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100188.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100188.gif [1/11/2002 3:51:06 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100189.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100189.gif [1/11/2002 3:51:10 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100190.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100190.gif [1/11/2002 3:51:14 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100191.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100191.gif [1/11/2002 3:51:19 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100192.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100192.gif [1/11/2002 3:51:22 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100193.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100193.gif [1/11/2002 3:51:25 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100194.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100194.gif [1/11/2002 3:51:27 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100195.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100195.gif (1 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:51:40 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100195.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100195.gif (2 of 2) [1/11/2002 3:51:40 PM] http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100196.gif http://www.adtdl.army.mil/cgi-bin/atdl.dll/fm/25-101/25100196.gif [1/11/2002 3:51:45 PM]
