MHI

Copy 3

Y

Ca

IDEPARTMENT FIELD MANUAL

U.S.Army Military History Institute

LEADERSHIP
COURTESY
AND DRILL
WAR DEPARTMENT · FEBRUARY 1946

IW A R

DEPA

R TMENT

FIELD

MANUAL

FM22-5
This manual supersedes FM 22-5, Infantry Drill Regulations, 4 August
1941, including C 1, 2 May 1942; C 2, 14 August 1942; C 3, 16 September
1943; C 4, 1 December 1943; FM 21-50, Military Courtesy and Discipline,
15 June 1942, including C 1, 15 December 1942, C 2, 19 January 1943, and
C 3, 4 October 1943; and Section II, 'WD Training Circular 3, 1945.

U.S.Army Military History Institute

LEADERSHIP
COURTESY
AND DRILL

IWAR

DEPARTMENT

FEBRUARY

United States Governmnten t Printing Offce
Washington: 1946

1946

WAR DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON 25, D.C., 1 February 1946

FM 22-5, Leadership, Courtesy, and Drill, is
published for the information and guidance of all
concerned.
[AG 300.7 (31 Oct 45)]
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF WAR:

OFFICIA'L:

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

Chief of Staff
EDWARD F. WITSELL
Major General
The Adjutant General

DISTRIBUTION:

AAF(5) ; AGF(40) ; ASF(2) ; FC(2); Class
III Instls(2); Gen & Sp Sv Sch(25), except 7(3000); Jr & Sr ROTC(5); A(3);
CHQ(3); D(3); B(3); R(3); Bn(3); C
2-4, 6, 8-11, 17-19, 35, 44(5), 5, 7(10);
AF(3) ; W(3) ; G(3) ; S(5).
For explanation of distribution formula, see
FM 21-6.
iii

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

1.

GENERAL ......................

CHAPTER

2.

MILITARY LEADERSHIP.

Paragraphs
1

Page
1

Section I. General ...................
...
2-6
II. Qualities of the leader .........
7-13
III. Responsibilities of the leader... 14-18

2
8
14

CHAPTER

3.

19-33

20

CHAPTER

4. DRILL

34-44

47

CHAPTER

5.

45
46-51
52-54

56
57
62

Section I. General ......................
55-56
II. Positions .....................
57-61
III. Steps and marchings.......... 62-74

65
66
74

MILITARY COURTESY .............

........................

COMMANDS.

Section I. General ......................
II. The command voice ............
III. Mass commands ..............
CHAPTER

CHAPTER

6.

7.

SCHOOL OF THE
ARMS.

SOLDIER

WITHOUT

SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER WITH ARMS.

Section I. General ......................
75-76
II. Manual of arms for the rifle .... 77-99
III. Manual of the automatic rifle...
100
IV. Manual of the pistol .......... 101-111
V. Manual of the carbine ........ 112-117
CHAPTER

8.

83
85
101
104
108

DRILL FOR FOOT TROOPS.

Section 1. Squad ......................
II. Platoon .....................
III. Company ..................
V

118-135
136-153
154-166

115
127
142.

Paragraphs

Page

167-171
Section I. General .....................
II. Vehicles in formations with
172-174
troops ....................
III. Loading and unloading vehicles.175-177
IV. Movements of vehicles ........ 178-185

156

9.

CHAPTER

CHAPTER 10.

DRILL FOR UNITS WITH VEHICLES.

OF THE
FORMATIONS
AND THE REGIMENT.

158
160
162

BATTALION

Section I. General .....................
II. Battalion ...................

186-188
189-194

168
170

...................

195-197

178

III. Regiment
CHAPTER 11.

CEREMONIES.

Section I. Reviews and presentation of
198-208
decorations ................
209-212
II. Parades ....................
213-214
III. Escorts .....................
215-218
IV. Inspections ..................
219-230
V. Funerals ....................
VI. Loading and ceremonial firing.231-234
VII. Manual of the guidon ......... 235-245
VIII. Manual of the color and the
246-254
standard ..................
CHAPTER 12.

236

COMBAT FORMATIONS.

255
Section I. General.........: ............
II. Combat drill: rifle squad ...... 256-260
IlI. Combat drill: rifle platoon ....261-265
IV. Combat exercises: rifle squad .266-276
2 4
V. Combat exercises: rifle platoon.277- 8
CHAPTER 13.

182
199
206
209
215
228
232

243
244
252

260
271

SIGNALS.

285-288
Section I. General .....................
289-292
II. Whistle signals ..............
III. General arm-and-hand signals.293-331

277
279
279

MANUAL OF THE SABER .................

293

APPENDIX.

INDEX

301

.........................................

vi

This manual supersedes FM 22-5, Infantry Drill Regulations, 4 August 1941,
including C 1, 2 May 1942; C 2, 14 August 1942; C 8, 16 September
1943; C 4, 1 December 1945; FM 21-50, Military Courtesy and Discipline,
15 June 1942, including C 1, 15 December 1942; C 2, 19 January 1948,
and C 8, 4 October 1943; and section II, T'D Training Circular 8, 1945.

CHAPTER 1
GENERAL

1. PURPOSE AND SCOPE. This manual is a guide
for all military personnel in basic leadership,
courtesy, and drill. It covers the qualities and
responsibilities of the leader, salutes and honors,
discipline, commands, steps and marchings, manual of arms, drill, ceremonies, combat formations,
and signals. 1 ,2

1 For military terms not defined in this manual, see TM 20-205; for list
of training publications, see FM 21-6; for training films, film strips, and
film bulletins, see FM 21-7; and for training aids, see FM 21-8.
2 Using personnel should understand the use of the parentheses to indicate an alternate procedure, person, direction, or number, whichever is
appropriate.
Example: "Faces (moves)" indicates that a facing or a
movement is made; "platoon leader (sergeant)" indicates the platoon leader
or sergeant; "right (left)" indicates right or left; "third (fourth)" indicates third or fourth.

1

CHAPTER 2
MILITARY LEADERSHIP

Section I. GENERAL
2. INTRODUCTION. a. Throughout its history the
Army of the United States has always nurtured
patriotism and devotion to country, while teaching
that honor, integrity, and the faithful performance of duty are to be valued above all personal
advantage or advancement.
b. Our Army differs from all other armies.
Racially we are not a homogeneous people and
many of the characteristics which make our men
potentially the best soldiers in the world may be,
with faulty leadership, a possible source of military weakness.
c. As a people we have deliberately cultivated
individual interest and independence-so-called
rugged individualism of thought and of action.
Our men are intelligent and resourceful to an
unusual degree. These characteristics, these qualities, while distinctly American and the natural
result of our democratic institutions, require
vigorous and understanding leadership in all
echelons of command.
3. BASIC ELEMENTS. Leadership is the art of influencing human behavior. The basic elements of
military leadership are character, knowledge of
men, and ability to instruct and lead others.

2

a. Character. The initial selection of leaders for
our Army is based primarily on known qualities
of character. This chapter describes ways and
means of further developing the character of the
leader.
b. Knowledge of men. Man is the fundamental
instrument in war; other instruments may change
but he remains relatively constant. Unless his behavior and elemental attributes are understood
and appreciated, gross mistakes will be made in
troop leading. A leader influences his men by his
manner and by his actions. Since these attributes
are largely controlled by his knowledge of the
methods of handling men, a leader without adequate leadership experience still has much to
learn.
c. Instruction. The leader instructs his men.
First of all, he must know his subject thoroughly
and completely. Experienced leaders prepare
themselves in advance for every task. This purposeful preparation, with its resulting power of
quick and sound decision, is the keystone to effective training and successful leadership. The leader
should not bluff-the men will sense it immediately. It is much better to admit lack of knowledge of the subject in question, and then take
steps to acquire the information and regain the
prestige lost through faulty preparation. The
leader must always remember that he and his men
are members of the same team; consequently he
does not "talk down" to them, but explains in
terms and illustrations suitable to their complete
understanding. A military unit trains on the same
principle as any team. Each man must know his
3

job; there must be perfect teamwork and there
must be good substitutes available when replacements are needed. Intelligent, thorough, and
painstaking instruction is required to achieve
this goal.
4. LEADERSHIP AND

COMMAND.

a.

A military

commander is vested with a high degree of authority. This authority extends into matters normally considered individual and personal, such as
the eating of food, the care and manner of wearing clothing, health habits, morale, and other elements of character and behavior-matters which
directly or indirectly affect the lives of the individuals under his command.
b. A military commander deserves to be called
a "leader" when his subordinates obey his commands because they have confidence in him, rather
than because they fear the consequences of disobedience.
c. These two functions, the authority to command and the obligation to lead, are so interwoven
that they cannot be considered separately. However, in moving down the chain of command to
closer personal relationship between superior and
subordinate, there is a gradual shifting of emphasis from command to leadership, so that while
the commander of a battalion or company is referred to as "commander," the commander of a
platoon, section, or squad is referred to as
"leader."
5. MORALE. Morale is the mental attitude assumed by the man or men to Army life and every4

thing associated with it. Good morale is indicated by a positive drive on the part of the men,
a push beyond that which is expected, and an
eagerness and enthusiasm concerning the leader's
desires. Sound psychology and long experience
indicate that the American soldier responds best
to leadership which appeals to his pride in himself
and his organization. The leader must, therefore,
make every effort to build up the pride and selfrespect of the men by laying emphasis on the
proud traditions of the soldier in general and.
of their organization in particular. He must train
them so that they can, as a team, accomplish
increasingly difficult tasks in a manner of which
they can be proud. The men must never be
allowed to forget that they carry the badge of their
unit and their country, and that those who see
them regard them not as individuals but as representatives of the unit whose insignia they wear.
If they appear smart, alert, and efficient, the comment will be not so much "that is a good soldier"
as, "that is a good outfit."
6. DISCIPLINE. a. Discipline, -in a military sense,
is the state of order and obedience among military
personnel resulting from training.
b. Military discipline must not be a cowed state
of subservience. The sort of obedience to be
developed in a subordinate is an intelligent, willing obedience rather than one based solely on
habit or fear. Habit plays its part and is one of
the chief objectives of drill. Fear of punishment
also may be used, but only as a powerful means
of reminding the petty offender that such actions
5

are against the interests of the group, or of
eliminating entirely the contamination of the few
incorrigibles. American qualities of initiative and
resourcefulness function best when obedience is
inspired by an understanding of the objective and
by loyalty to a cause, a leader, or a team. Obedience of this sort functions whether the leader is
present or not. It pervades the life of the soldier
from the courtesies of daily association to the
assault on the battlefield. It wins battles.
c. Mass discipline and morale are essential qualities for securing cohesive action and for insuring
that singleness of purpose which alone can triumph over the seemingly impossible conditions of
war. The successful leader will teach his men to
recognize and face fear, because fear is the enemy
of discipline and morale. Fear unchecked will lead
to panic, and a unit that panics is no longer a
disciplined unit but a mob. There is no sane person
who is altogether without fear, but with good discipline and high morale, all will face danger, if
not willingly, at least stoically, because of their
ingrained sentiments of duty, of courage, and of
loyalty, and because of their sense of pride in their
country, in their unit, and in themselves; in other
words, because of their esprit de corps.
d. The necessity 'for discipline is never fully
comprehended by the soldier until he has undergone the experience of battle, and even then he
may lack a basis of comparison-the contrast
between the grimly efficient combat action of a
disciplined unit and the shameful failure and
probable disintegration of one which lacks that
intangible quality. However, it is not only during
6

battle itself that discipline and leadership will be
necessary for the maintenance of morale. The
first test may come during the long and trying
periods of training, of marching here and there
without evident purpose, but the greatest tests
will surely come during the periods of reaction
after battle, and of boredom and dull routine when
the unit is employed on nonhazardous duty. At
such times the stimulation of excitement will be
absent and morale will depend largely on leadership. A high standard of discipline must be
imposed. The men must be exercised both mentally and physically, and the leader must be energetic in insuring the comfort of his men and in
arranging for their welfare.
e. True discipline should be based on mental,
moral, and physical training designed to insure
that all respond to the will of the commander,
even though he is not present. Drill is the foundation of disciplinary training; it compels the habit
of obedience and stimulates the feeling of corporate strength as the unit moves together as one
man. The strictest obedience and formality on
parade can and should be combined with -real
friendship and understanding off parade. Nevertheless, the first essential of discipline training is
example, and no man who is himself undisciplined
can claim the moral right to discipline others.
The leader must therefore be faultless in conduct
and punctilious in the performance of all duties.
Discipline in a leader includes the discipline
expected of a soldier, plus the willingness to accept full responsibility for the condition and conduct of his unit.

7

f. The object of punishment is reform or the
elimination of those unfit to serve 'in the team.
When necessary, the leader should punish
promptly and justly, after fair warning. The
punishment must be governed by the Articles of
War and should be fitting to the offense and to
the individual, considering his age, length of service, and personal characteristics. In administering punishment, the leader must remain calm, impersonal, and dignified. He must never humiliate
a subordinate in the presence of others when it
can be avoided. In administering a rebuke, the
leader must appeal to the subordinate's pride in
himself and point the way to atonement, being
sure to indicate that the misconduct reflects unfavorably on the organization.
g. Discipline is maintained in much the same
manner as it is attained. There is not and should
not be a sharply defined line of demarcation between the two. Common sense, good judgment,
fairness and justice, high morale, pride, and
responsibility contribute as much to maintaining
discipline as to attaining it.

Section II. QUALITIES OF THE LEADER

7. GENERAL. A leader is self-confident and commands his subordinates. He is not arrogant, nor
does he look down upon subordinates as inferiors
lacking in intelligence, in self-respect, or in the
desire to do their share. The leader must possess
the soldierly qualities of obedience, loyalty, neat8

ness, precision, self-control, endurance, courage,
and coolness in the face of danger in a sufficiently
high degree to be a fitting example to his men.
Mutual respect and loyalty are essential in a team.
8. EXPERIENCE. Successful practical experience
gives the leader confidence in himself and inspires
it in his men. Intelligence and knowledge derived
from the experience of others may serve as substitutes initially, but handling men is an art developed through experience. It is the duty of all
leaders to afford their subordinates opportunities
to practice leadership, and to encourage suboirdinate leaders to solve their own problems by giving
them maximum responsibility for their units, subject only to necessary supervision. Inexperienced
leaders may ask the advice of their superiors,
experienced subordinates, and other experienced
leaders, but they should not depend on others to
make their decisions for them. The decisions and
the responsibility should be theirs alone.
9. RELATIONSHIP

WITH

SUBORDINATES.

a. The

leader should adopt a sensible and natural attitude
in dealing with his subordinates. It is always a
grave mistake for a leader to try to gain popularity by undue familiarity, coddling, or currying
favor, because it is an inescapable fact that intimate association between leaders and those they
lead tends to destroy discipline and lower prestige.
In the interests of good discipline, officers are required to wear a distinctive uniform, to live apart
from the men, and to confine their social contacts
in the Army to other officers. This age-old distinc9

tion prevails in all armies. Enlisted men understand and appreciate the reasons and necessities
which prevent undue familiarity with their leaders
and have little but contempt for the officer or
soldier who, forgetting his own place, deliberately
crosses the dividing line reserved for the other.
The wise leader will walk the thin line between
friendship and familiarity, and at the same time
be parent, brother, and father-confessor to his
men. It has been said that "a good leader has the
patience of Job, the loyalty of Jonathan, and
Martha's willingness to serve." However, this is
never a one-sided relationship, because experience
has shown that if the leader will take care of his
men, they'll take care of him.
b. It is important that a commander keep himself accessible at all times to the men of his unit.
Thoughtful consideration must be given to complaints. The man who makes a complaint thinks he
has suffered an injustice. If he has, 'the-fault
should be remedied; if not, his faulty impressions
should be corrected at once. In this way no grievances, real or imaginary, will be allowed to
develop.
10. DECISIVENESS, INITIATIVE, RESOURCEFULNESS.
a. The unexpected is always a test of leader-

ship. The ability to grasp the facts in a situation
quickly and to initiate prompt intelligent action
is invaluable. A clear understanding of the objective to be attained will usually guide a leader to
a sound decision.
b. Decisiveness is of great importance. Indecision, or hasty decisions which must be changed,
10

destroy confidence. Stubborn adherence to faulty
decisions creates resentment, while frank admission of error with prompt corrective action inspires respect and confidence.
c. In some situations, action may be necessary
which is beyond the scope of the leader's authority
or contrary to his orders. In such circumstances,
he reports the situation to his superior with his
recommendations, or, when the urgency warrants
it, takes action himself and reports his actions to
his superior as soon as possible. Soldiers unite
quickly behind 'a leader who meets a new and
unexpected situation with prompt action.
d. New situations and absence of means due to
enemy action or other cause demand resourcefulness in a leader. Military supply, organization,
and training are designed to meet all normally
expected situations, but sometimes fail under combat conditions. Inactivity or passive acceptance
of an unsatisfactory situation because of lack of
normal means or ways of dealing with it are never
justified.
11. THOUGHTFULNESS. Thoughtfulness includes the
forethought essential to planning and such qualities in relations with others as courtesy, consideration, sympathy, and understanding.
a. Proper planning is essential to the success of
any mission, whether in training or in combat.
The welfare of the men is an important element
in all plans, second only to the accomplishment of
the mission.
b. Courtesy is discussed in chapter 3.
674344--46-2

11

c. A leader's consideration for his men, like the
spirit of obedience, is ever present. It reveals itself
in 'many little ways, such as letting them be at
ease during explanations at drill, insuring that
they get hot meals on marches or in combat, taking advantage of lulls to let them rest or sleep,
commending work well done, and understanding
and discussing with them their points of view
and their individual problems.
d. Sympathy should be intelligent. It should
not encourage men to shirk, feel sorry for themselves, or rebel. It should not produce that familiarity which breeds contempt or lack of respect.
It should not blind the leader or his men to the
realization that orders must be obeyed even when
the reasons for them are not understood, that
hardships are to be expected and must be endured,
and that the impossible may have to be attempted
and achieved.
12. JUSTICE

AND

IMPARTIALITY.

a.

Everyone

resents injustice and favoritism. In assigning
duties, recognizing merit, granting privileges, or
awarding punishment, the leader must be just
and impartial. He must be accessible, willing to
listen to and investigate complaints, and prompt
in taking corrective action when necessary.
b. Commendation is more effective than criticism, but indiscriminate praise reduces the value
of commendation, and failure to point out faults
is unjust. An incompetent subordinate should be
removed, but the leader should not condemn him
until he has pointed out his errors to him and
given him a chance to correct them, unless it is
12

clearly obvious that to do otherwise would
threaten the success of a unit's mission.
c. To accept slipshod performance as satisfactory is to court disaster in battle. Likewise, to
accept willing, competent performance without
recognizing it with commendation or other reward
is a serious neglect that ultimately produces discouragement and destroys that willingness which
is an essential element of obedience.
13. ADDITIONAL QUALITIES. a. There are other
positive qualities which create respect. These are
honesty, truthfulness, decency, dependability, and
sincerity. Possession of these create self-reliance
and engender self-respect. Many attributes, such
as sincerity, enthusiasm, friendliness, and good
humor, are invaluable to a leader; these should be
natural and not forced or exaggerated. If not
inherent, they can be acquired over a period of
time by observation of others and thoughtful
application of the results of this observation to
one's needs.
b. Dissolute habits must be avoided and undesirable traits of character must be corrected. Immorality, obscenity, drunkenness, gambling, and
continued indebtedness undermine morale fiber
and destroy the will as well as being outward
indications of self-degradation. Ridicule, sarcasm,
and insulting remarks create resentment and
should never be employed. Surliness and uncontrolled anger indicate lack of poise and selfcontrol, often concealing inability and lack of
knowledge.
13

Section III. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THME LEADER
14. GENERAL. The manner in which a leader ful-

fills his responsibilities is the measure of his success. These responsibilities are twofold, comprising the accomplishment of his mission and his
duty to his men.
a. The primary responsibility of a leader is the
accomplishment of the mission which is assigned
him by his superiors. Everything else in the military service, even the welfare of the men, is subordinated to it.
b. No individual is fully prepared to undertake
his assigned duties until he understands the mission and the part he is to play in accomplishing it.
To provide this orientation is a constantly recurring obligation to all leaders in every stage of
training and combat.
c. When things go wrong in his unit, the leader
is loyal to his men and accepts full responsibility
without attempting to evade it through excusing
himself or blaming a subordinate. Likewise, when
transmitting orders from his superiors, the leader
is loyal to them and does not curry favor with his
men by indicating that he is issuing the orders
against his will. If he is the real leader of his
unit, the orders he issues, no. matter where they
originated, become his orders to be enforced with
all the authority he can exert.
d. A superior should demand this sense of. responsibility in subordinate commanders and leaders and should encourage it whenever possible
by exercising his authority through them and refraining from intervening openly in the exercise
14

of their authority, or doing anything to discredit
them in the eyes of their men.
e. Responsibility for his organization requires
that the leader constantly check to see that his
orders are carried out and, where necessary, that
corrections are made at once. Every individual
should be trained and encouraged to avoid the'
inertia which leads to an assumption that orders
have been properly executed.
15. TRAINING. a. It is preferable that training be
conducted by the leader who'is going to lead the
team in combat.
b. For economy in time, and in the absence of
experienced leaders, competent specialists may be
used as instructors. In such cases, the leader acts
as an assistant instructor and leader in the applicatory phases of such training. He prepares
himself by study and application. He does not
bluff or try to evade legitimate questions. He may
not know all the answers, but he should be able
to get them for his men.
c. Since training is preparation for' battle, it
must be realistic, practical, and as similar'as possible to the battle situations the personnel are
expected to meet. It must be sufficiently arduous
to develop the necessary qualities of stamina and
obedience under adverse conditions.
d. For principles and methods of training, see
FM 21-5 and TM 21-250.
16. COMBAT. a. Success in combat depends primarily upon the actions of individuals and smallunit leaders, once they have been committed to
15

action. It is then that training, good discipline,
and high morale pay dividends, and leadership
proves its worth.
b. The leader gives his team its mission and a
simple plan for achieving it. He places himself
where he can control the team as a whole or that
part of it which is making the principle effort.
He requests necessary support and keeps his
superior, and leaders of those units adjacent to
his, informed of the situation. As new situations
develop, he initiates action to handle them.
c. Although he does not expose himself needlessly, thoughts of his own safety are subordinated
to concern for his mission and his men. His presence and the force of his personality and example
should assure the successful accomplishment of
the mission.
d. After combat, the leader concerns himself
with the reorganization of his team and the application in training of lessons learned in combat.
He insures the care of the wounded, takes care of
the effects of those who have been killed, sees that
merit is recognized and rewarded, devises activity
to maintain morale, and in other thoughtful ways
shows his appreciation of loyal service and insures
that the team is ready for continued duty.
17. ASSIGNMENTS. In assigning individuals to duties, in making promotions, and in other matters
involving the selection of individuals for work or
rewards, the principle of justice must govern.
a. Duties and privileges that all share must be
assigned on a roster basis except when it is de16

sired to reward outstanding service or to punish
misbehavior.
b. Special assignments and promotions must be
based on the character and capabilities of the'
individual and the requirements of the position.
Due consideration should be given to length of
service as well as ability, provided that the service
has been honorable and the individual is competent
to handle the assignment. The recommendation of
the leader under whom the appointee will serve
directly should be considered, but individuals in
other teams who may be more deserving should
not be overlooked. Initially, assignments may be
tentative, contingent upon successful performance
of the duties involved, but they must be carefully
made in order to spare the appointees the embarrassment of failure and demotion. Similar considerations should govern recommendations for
attendance at officers' candidate schools, and other
schools.
c. Blocking of promotions and other opportunities for individuals in order to retain their services in the team ultimately results in lowered
morale unless opportunity for equivalent reward
exists within the team. The leader has responsibilities not only to his own team, but also to the
individuals in his team and to the larger team of
which he is only a. part. -Through training and
rotation of assignments, the leader must provide
that suitable replacements are ready at'all times
to substitute for himself and all subordinate leaders and specialists in the team. The interests of
the service as a whole must govern.
17

d. In receiving replacements, the leader concerns himself with learning their individual capabilities, assigning them to suitable duties, and
orienting them as members of the team.
18. THE WELFARE OF THE MEN.

Next to his mis-

sion, the welfare of his men is a leader's most important responsibility because of its effect on their
morale and their consequent ability to perform the
mission. All commanders and leaders must interest themselves in all matters affecting the welfare
of their -men, including mess, adequate clothing
and equipment, health and sanitation, recreation
and entertainment, and personal problems. The
measures to be used include planning, procurement and distribution of necessary supplies, training, frequent inspections, and corrective measures,
which may include disciplinary action.
a. Food must be well prepared and fairly apportioned, special efforts being made to insure
that the men get the best pdssible, even under the
most adverse conditions. The storing of food, the
health and cleanliness of kitchen workers, the control of flies, the disposal of wastes, and the cleansing of utensils and other equipment are matters
of strict daily supervision.
b. Clothing must fit properly, must be properly
worn and cared for, and promptly salvaged and
replaced when no longer usable. Care of equipment must be stressed as a necessary means of
conserving national resources and government
property, and as a habit which will insure dependable functioning under battle conditions when failure may prove costly.
18

c. The sick-call and venereal rate are indications of a unit's efficiency. Sanitary conditions in
kitchens, mess halls, sleeping quarters, wash
rooms, latrines, and other sources of infection
must be watched carefully. Instruction in health
habits, provision of the means for protecting
health, and insistence on development of proper
habits are equally important, especially under
campaign conditions. Constant vigilance and frequent inspections are necessary.
d. Wholesome recreation and entertainment
must be provided, especially that which encourages active participation, physical development,
and the team spirit.
e. Furloughs and passes must be granted impartially and as freely as the situation permits.
f. Consideration and, when possible, help must
be given in dealing with personal problems. Young
men away from home for the first time, and others
also, may need unsolicited advice and protection
against harmful influences. The taking out of insurance, saving of money, and other personal matters may become subjects of advice.
g. The spirit behind the leader's interest must
be one of genuine helpfulness and thoughtfulness.
In matters involving the proper care of government property, protection of health, and fitness of
the soldier to perform his assigned duties, stern
measures are taken, if necessary.

CHAPTER 3
MILITARY COURTESY

19. GENERAL. a. Courtesy is the expression of
consideration for others. It pays the largest returns for the least effort of anything one can do.
In military life, where individuals are required to
live and work together more intimately than in
civiTian life and where cooperative effort is allimportant, courtesy is of vital importance in promoting coordination and developing a proper
esprit de corps.
b. Courtesy is shown to all, to juniors as well
as to seniors. The courtesy shown a senior is a
recognition of the responsibility and authority of
his position. That shown a junior acknowledges
the essential part he plays as a member of the
military team.
c. The methods of expressing military courtesy
are distinctive and precise. Slovenly, grudging, or
perfunctory display of these methods is discourteous.
d. The courtesy which marks military ceremonies has a profound meaning. A salute to the
flag is a declaration of loyalty to the United States
and to the principles of liberty and justice on
which the Nation was founded. When a military
man presents arms at retreat or salutes a senior,
it is a recognition of the organized authority of
the Nation, as represented by the Army, which is
charged with its protection.
20

20. SALUTES. The most important of all military
courtesies is the salute. This is because it is at
once the most obvious and the most used. The
manner of executing the salute is an indication of
the individual's attitude toward his duties as a
military man and the state of training and morale
in the unit of which he is a member. Executed
willingly and smartly, it indicates pride in himself
and his unit and confidence in his ability to perform his military duties well. A sloppy, grudging
salute indicates neglect or ignorance of his duties,
lack of confidence in his ability to perform them,
lack of pride in the military team of which he is a
member, a stubborn, defiant spirit unsuited to
cooperate with others in a common effort, or some
similar deficiency which marks him as a poor
soldier and his unit as a poor unit from which
the best results cannot be expected in combat.
21. GENERAL RULES AND DEFINITIONS IN' REGARD
TO SALUTING. a. All persons in the military serv-

ice are required to salute when they meet and recognize persons entitled to the salute, the junior
saluting first. (For exceptions, see f and g below
and par. 23.)
b. Those persons entitled to the salute are:
(1) Commissioned officers (both male and female) of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and
Coast Guard.
(2) Members of the Army Nurse Corps and
Navy Nurse Corps, and other female personnel in
grades corresponding to those of commissioned
officers.
21

(3) Warrant officers and flight officers.
(4) Commissioned officers of Allied Nations.
It is also customary to salute officers of friendly
foreign countries when recognized as such.
c. For saluting distance and the manner of executing the hand and rifle salutes, see paragraphs
61 and 84.
d. A salute is returned by all officers entitled to
it, unless they are in formation. (See par. 25a.)
The salute must never be Tendered in a casual or
perfunctory manner, nor with pipe, cigar, or cigarette held in the mouth or in the right hand. It is
rendered only at a halt or a walk. If running, a
person comes to a walk before saluting; a mounted
person at a trot or gallop comes to the walk to
salute. Salutes are exchanged whether individuals
are covered or uncovered.
e. The salute is rendered but once if the senior
remains in the immediate vicinity and no conversation takes place. If a conversation takes place,
the junior again salutes the senior on departing
or when the senior leaves.
f. In making reports, the person making the report salutes first, regardless of rank. An example
of this is the case of a battalion commander making a report to the regimental adjutant during a
ceremony.
g. Exceptions to the general rule prescribing
the salute are indicated in specific rules given in
subsequent paragraphs. In general, one does not
salute when(1) Standing to horse or leading a horse.
22

(2) At work. (See par. 26b.)
(3) Indoors, except when reporting to a senior
or when on duty as a sentinel or guard. (See pars.
22 and 24.)
(4) Carrying articles with both hands or being
otherwise so occupied as to make saluting impracticable.
(5) The rendition of the salute is obviously inappropriate, as for example: A person in a fastmoving vehicle and one dismounted are not
required to exchange salutes because recognition
is usually not possible, except when the vehicle is
clearly marked to indicate the presence of an
officer.
(6) A prisoner.
h. In any case-not covered by specific instructions, or in case of reasonable doubt, the salute
will be rendered.
i. The term "outdoors" is construed to include
such buildings as drill halls, riding halls, gymnasiums, and other roofed inclosures used for drill
or exercise of troops. Theater marquees, covered
walks, and other shelters open on the sides to the
weather, are also considered "outdoors." "Indoors" includes offices, hallways, kitchens, orderly
rooms, recreation rooms, washrooms, squad
rooms, etc. The expression "under arms" means
carrying the arms, or having them attached to the
person by sling, holster, or other means. In the
absence of arms, it refers to the equipment pertaining directly to the arm, such as cartridge
belt, pistol holster, or automatic rifle belt.
23

22. REPORTING TO AN OFFICER.

The salute is al-

ways rendered by a junior on reporting to a
senior. He will also salute at the termination of
the interview or upon leaving.
a. Reporting indoors, unarmed.

(1)

When re-

porting to an officer in his office, a soldier removes
his headdress, knocks, and enters when told to
do so. Upon entering, he halts about two paces
from the officer, salutes, and says: "Sir ........
reports to ........

," using names and grades.

For example, "Sir, Private Jones reports to Captain Smith" or "Sir, Private Jones reports to the
company commander." (See fig. 10.) The salute is
held until the completion of the formal report,
when the senior returns the salute. After the formal report, the conversation is carried on in the
first and third person. When the business is completed, the soldier salutes, executes about face
when the salute has been returned, and departs.
(2) An enlisted man desiring to speak to his
company commander will normally obtain the first
sergeant's permission to do so. When reporting to
his commanding officer, he says: "Sir, Private
Jones has the first sergeant's permission to speak
to the company commander."
b. Reporting indoors under arms. When the sol-

dier is under arms (see par. 21i), the procedure
described in a above is followed, except that the
headdress is not removed. When carrying a rifle,
the soldier enters with the rifle at the trail, halts,
and renders the rifle salute at order arms. Otherwise, the hand salute is given.
c. Reporting outdoors. The procedure is the same

as described in a and b above, except that the
24

headdress is not removed and the soldier armed
with the rifle may, in approaching the officer,
carry it at the trail or at right shoulder arms. He
executes the rifle salute at the order or at right
shoulder arms,
d. Reporting for pay. A soldier reporting for pay
answers "Here" when his name is called, salutes
the officer making payment, counts his money as
it is placed before him, picks it up, and leaves the
room without again saluting the officer making
payment. The officer making payment does not
return the salute.
23. SALUTING IN VEHICLES. a. Drivers of motor
vehicles salute only when the vehicle is at a halt.
b. Drivers of horse-drawn vehicles salute only
when halted and both hands are not required for
control of the team.
c. Any individual in a vehicle, other than the
driver, renders the hand salute whenever recognition is possible, whether the vehicle is halted or
in motion. (See par. 21g (5).) In case a detail is
riding in a vehicle, the individual in charge renders the hand salute for the entire detail.
d. Salutes are not rendered in public conveyances.
24. SALUTING ON GUARD DUTY. a. In garrison,
sentinels posted with a rifle salute by presenting
arms after first halting and facing the music, person, or colors. During hours for challenging, the
first salute is rendered as soon as the officer has
(See FM
been duly recognized and .advanced.
26-5.)
25

b. A sentinel armed with a pistol or carbine
salutes with the hand salute except during challenging hours. When challenging, he does not
salute, but executes raise pistol (port arms) and
retains that position until the challenged party has
departed.
c. A sentinel in conversation with an officer
does not interrupt the conversation to salute another officer, but if the officer with whom the
sentinel is conversing salutes a senior, the sentinel
also salutes.
d. A prison guard armed with a rifle executes
the rifle salute.
e. A sentinel on post or a guard on duty salutes
whether outdoors or indoors.
f. No salute is rendered by a guard when saluting would interfere with the proper performance
of his duty.

25. SALUTING IN GROUPS. a. In formation. Individuals in formation do not salute or return salutes except at the command PRESENT ARMS.
The individual in charge salutes and acknowledges
salutes for the whole formation. Commanders of
organizations or detachments which are not a
part of a larger formation salute officers of higher
grades by bringing the organization or detachment
to attention before saluting. When in the field
under campaign or simulated campaign conditions, the organization or detachment is not
brought to attention. An individual in formation
at ease or at rest comes to attention when addressed by a person superior to him in rank.
26

b. Not in formation. On the approach of an officer superior in rank, a group of individuals not
in formation is called to attention by the first
person noticing him, and all come smartly to
attention and salute. Individuals participating in
games and members of details at work do not
salute. The individual in charge of a work detail,
if not actively engaged, salutes or acknowledges
salutes for the whole detail. A unit resting alongside of a road does not come to attention upon the
approach of an officer. However, if the officer
addresses an individual or group, they come to
attention and remain at attention (unless otherwise ordered) until the termination of the conversation, at which time they salute the officer.
26. OTHER COURTESIES TO INDIVIDUALS. a. When

an officer enters a room or tent, officers junior to
the one who enters and enlisted men present will
uncover (if unarmed) and stand at attention until
the officer directs otherwise or leaves the room.
When more than one person is present, the first
to perceive the officer commands: ATTENTION
in a sufficiently loud and clear tone.
b. When an officer enters a room or a tent used
as an office, workshop, or recreation room, those
at work or play therein are not required to come
to attention unless addressed by him. A junior,
when addressed by a senior, comes to attention,
except in the transaction of routine business between individuals at work.
c. When an officer enters an enlisted men's mess
the group is called to "at ease" by the first person
noticing him. The first sergeant, mess sergeant,
674344°--46--3

27

first cook, or other person in charge will report
to the officer. Men seated at meals will remain
seated at ease and continue eating, unless the officer directs otherwise. An individual directly addressed ceases to eat and sits at attention until
the conversation is ended.
d. When accompanying a senior, a junior walks
or rides on his left, except when accompanying a
senior during inspection of troops.
e. In entering an automobile or a small boat,
the junior goes first and others follow in inverse
order of rank; in leaving an automobile or a small
boat, the senior goes first and others follow in
order of rank. (See par. 32.)
f. Military custom requires that intermediate
commanders be informed of instructions issued to
their subordinates by higher commanders.
g. Customs of the service prescribe other courtesies among officers, such as official calls and courtesies at mess and social functions. As these vary
in different commands and under varying circumstances, information on local customs and the
wishes of the commander should be obtained from
the adjutant of the command.
27. HONORS TO THE ."NATIONAL ANTHEM" OR "TO
THE COLOR" ("STANDARD"). a. Outdoors. When-

ever and wherever the National Anthem or To the
Color is played (not in formation)-(1) At the first note, all dismounted personnel
present will face the music, stand at attention,
and render the prescribed salute, except that at
the "Escort of the Color" or at "Retreat" they
will face toward the color or flag. The position of
28

salute will be retained until the last note of the
music is sounded.
(2) Those mounted on animals will halt and
render the salute mounted. Individuals leading
animals or standing to horse will stand at attention but will not salute.
(3) Vehicles in motion will be brought to a
halt. Persons riding in a passenger car or on a
motorcycle will dismount and salute as directed
in (1) above. Occupants of other types of military vehicles remain seated at attention in the
vehicle, the individual in charge of each vehicle
dismounting and rendering the hand salute. Tank
-or armored car commanders salute from the
vehicle.
(4) The above marks of respect are shown the
National Anthem of any friendly country when
played upon official occasions.
b. Indoors. Whenthe NationalAnthem is played
indoors, officers and enlisted personnel will stand
at attention and face the music or the flag if one
'is present. They will not salute unless under arms.
28. OTHER HONORS. a. To colors. Military personnel passing an uncased color (standard) salute at
6 paces distance and hold the salute until they
have passed 6 paces beyond it. Similarly, when an
uncased color (standard) passes by, they salute
when it is 6 paces away and hold the salute until
it has passed 6 paces beyond them. Small flags
carried by individuals are not saluted.
b. Personal honors. When personal honors are
rendered, officers and enlisted personnel present,
not in formation, salute at the first note of the

29

music and hold the salute until the completion of
the ruffles, flourishes, and march. (See pars. 205
and 214.) When the cannon salute is rendered,
individuals who are members of the official party
and others in the immediate vicinity will conform
to the actions of the person being honored. A
cannon salute to the Nation requires no individual
action.
c. Military funerals. Military personnel will salute during the passing of a caisson or hearse
bearing the remains in a funeral procession. Those
attending a military funeral in their individual
capacity or as honorary pallbearers will uncover
or salute as prescribed in paragraph 219f.
29. UNCOVERING. Officers and enlisted men under
arms uncover only whena. Seated as a member of or in attendance on a
court or board. Sentinels guarding prisoners do
not uncover.
b. Entering places of divine worship.
c. Indoors when not on duty.
d. In attendance at an official reception.
30. TITLES. a. General. All military and naval personnel are addressed in official correspondence by
their full titles.
b. Army. In conversations and unofficial correspondence, military personnel are addressed as
follows:
(1) All general officers ............ "General"
(2) Colonels and lieutenant colonels. "Colonel"
(3) Majors ...............
"..Major"
30

(4) Captains . ........
...........
"Captain"
(5) All lieutenants ............
"Lieutenant"
(6) All chaplains ...............
"Chaplain"
(7) Army nurses ..................
"Nurse"
(8) Cadets .......................
"Mister"
(9) Warrant officers ...............
"Mister"
(10) All sergeants
and technicians 1 to 4 ...... "Sergeant"
(11) Corporals and technicians 5.. "Corporal"
(12) Privates and Privates, first class.......
"Private Jones" or "Jones."
When the name is not known, a private may be
addressed as "Soldier."
(13) Except when in the presence of troops,
senior officers frequently address juniors as
"Smith" or "Jones," but this does not give the
junior the privilege of addressing the senior in
any other way than by his proper title. By the
same token, officers of the same grade generally
address one another by their last names. The
courtesy and respect for others which govern
gentlemen are expected to prevail at all times.
c. United States Navy. In conversations and unofficial correspondence, naval officers are addressed
as follows:
(1) All Admirals ............
(2) Commodores .............
(3) Captains ....................

"....Admiral"
"Commodore"
"Captain"

Note. Any officer in command of a ship, regardless of
size or class, while exercising such command, is addressed
as "Captain."

31

(4) Commander ....
".........
"Commander"
(5) Lieutenant commanders,
lieutenants, ensigns, and
midshipmen ................ "Mister"
(6) All chaplains ...............
"Chaplain"
(7) All medical officers ............
"Doctor"
(8) In referring to or introducing captains in
the Navy, it is customary to add after the name,
"of the Navy," since the grade of captain in the
Navy corresponds to the grade of colonel in the
Army.
d. Relative rank between officers of the Army and
the Navy. (1) General of the army with admiral
of the fleet.
(2) General with admiral.
(3) Lieutenant general with vice admiral.
(4) Major general with rear admiral.
(5) Brigadier general with commodore.
(6) Colonel with captain.
(7) Lieutenant colonel with commander.
(8) Major with lieutenant commander.
(9) Captain with lieutenant.
(10) First lieutenant with lieutenant (junior
grade).
(11) Second lieutenant with ensign.
(12) Chief warrant officer with commissioned
warrant officer.
(13) Warrant officer junior grade and flight
officer with warrant officer.
31. OFFICERS' INSIGNIA OF GRADE. a. Army. Insignia of grade are worn on the garrison cap, on
the shoulder loops of coats, and on the shirt collar when a coat is not worn. (See fig. 1.) Majors'
32

GENERAL OF
THE ARMY

GENERAL
(SILVER)

MAJ GENERAL
(SILVER)

BRIG GENERAL
(SILVER)

COLONEL
' (SILVER)

LT COLONEL
(SILVER)

MAJOR
(GOLD)

CAPTAIN
(SILVER)

FIRST LIEUTENANT
(SILVER)

SECOND LIEUTENANT
(GOLD)

CHIEF WARRANT
OFFICER

WARRANT OFFICER
JUNIOR GRADE

FLIGHT OFFICER

CHIEF WARRANT
OFFICER (MARINE)

-

LT. GENERAL
(SILVER)

Figure 1. Officer's insignia of grade, Army and
Marine Corps.

33

and second lieutenants' insignia are of gold. Warrant officers' insignia are of brown enamel and
gold. Flight officers' insignia are of blue enamel
and gold. All other insignia of grade are of silver.

ADMIRAL OF
THE FLEET

ADMIRAL

VICE

ADMIRA

REAR

L

COMMODORE

CAPTAIN

COMMANDER

LIEUTENANT
COMMANDER

LIEUTENANT

LIEUTENANT
JUNIOR GRADE

ENSIGN

CHIEF WARRANT
OFFICER

,WARRANT
OFFICER

Figure 2. Sleeve ornamentation,Naval and

Coast Guard Officers.

b. Navy. Insignia of grade are various combinations of stripes of gold lace worn on the sleeve
of the blue uniform and on the-shoulders of the
white uniform and the overcoat. (See fig. 2.) For
chief warrant officers and warrant officers, the
stripe is broken and alternately blue and gold. The
34

gold star or other device worn above the stripes
is the insignia of corps (branch). On the white
uniform and overcoat the shoulder marks are
replicas of those worn on the sleeve of the blue
uniform except for commodores and admirals,
whose shoulder marks are covered with gold lace
and have on them a silver fouled anchor and one
to five silver stars, the number of stars indicating
the grade as in the Army. When the coat is not
worn, naval officers wear on shirt collars insignia
of grade similar to their Army equivalents.
c. Marine Corps. Insignia of grade are similar
to the Army insignia except for warrant officers.
(See fig. 1.) Chief warrant officers' insignia are
of gold and blue enamel.
d. Coast Guard. Coast Guard insignia of grade
are similar to Navy insignia. (See fig. 2.) The
shield of the Union appearing above the stripes
indicates the Coast Guard service.
32. VISITS TO WAR VESSELS.

a. A vessel of war

will be approached and boarded by commissioned
officers and visitors in their company by the
starboard (right) side and gangway; all other
persons will use the port (left) gangway. The
commanding officer of the ship may alter this
rule, if expedient. Commissioned officers boarding
a vessel of war will board in order of rank; when
leaving, they will depart in inverse order of rank.
b. For order and precedence in entering and
leaving a small boat, see paragraph 26e.
c. An officer paying a boarding visit to a vessel
of war or transport is met at the gangway by the
officer of the deck.
35

d. The salutes to be exchanged upon boarding
and leaving a vessel of war are prescribed below
and conform to regulations of the United States
Navy. All members of the Army visiting a vessel
of war will conform.
(1) All officers and men, whenever reaching
the quarter-deck either from a boat, from a gangway, from the shore, or from another part of the
ship, will salute the national ensign at the stern
of the ship. In making this salute, which will be
entirely distinct from the salute to the officer of
the deck, the person making it will stop at the
top of the gangway or upon arriving on the quarterdeck, face the stern, and render the salute,
after which the officer of the deck will be saluted.
In leaving the quarter-deck, the same salutes will
be rendered in reverse order. The officer of the
deck returns both salutes in each case and requires
that they be properly made.
(2) The commanding officer of the ship will
clearly define the limits of the quarter-deck; it will
embrace so much of the main or other appropriate
deck as may be necessary for the proper conduct
of official and ceremonial functions. When the
quarter-deck so designated is forward and at a
considerable distance from the stern, the salute
to the national ensign prescribed in (1) above,
will not be rendered by officers and men except
when leaving or coming aboard the ship.
(3) The salute to the national ensign to be
made by officers and enlisted men with no arms
in hand will be the hand salute; the headdress
will not be removed.
36

e. All officers in the visiting party salute the
national ensign, and officer of the deck. Other
salutes given at the gangway of a naval vessel
are rendered or returned only by the senior officer
of the visiting party. (See AR 605-125.)
33. DISPLAY AND SALUTE OF THE FLAG. a. The flag

of the United States represents the Nation, the
union (blue field and stars) being the honor point.
The right is the place of honor. The edge which
is toward the staff is the right edge. The union
and the flag itself are always given the place of
honor.
b. The United States flag, color, or standard is
never dipped in salute, nor is it ever permitted to
touch the ground. Soiled, torn, or badly faded
flags should not be displayed, but should be destroyed by burning privately. The flag should
never be used as a costume or dress, nor on a
vehicle or float except attached to a staff, nor as
drapery in any form. For draping and for decoration in general, bunting of the national colors may
be used, with the blue uppermost. No lettering or
object of any kind will be placed on the United
States flag, nor should it be used in any form of
advertising.
c. When the flag is attached to a staff, the union
is toward the staff and at the peak. (See fig. 3®
and ®.)

d. When displayed horizontally or vertically
against a wall, the flag should be flat, with the
union uppermost and to the flag's own right (the
observer's left). (See fig. 3( and ®.)
37

Q

O

FLAG AT FULLSTAFF

FLAG AT HALFSTAFF

Figure 30 to O. Display and salute of the flag.

38

()NATIONAL

FLAG IN PROCESSION

QFLAG ATTACHED TO MAST
EXTENDING FROM A BUILDING

(FLAG

WITH MOURNING
STREAMERS

WITH SINGLE OTHER FLAG

QFLAG AT HALFSTAFF ON MAST
EXTENDING FROM A BUILDING

Figure 30 to ®. Display and salute of the flag.

39

DQFLAG DISPLAYED VERTICALLY
AGAINST A WALL

O'FLAG DISPLAYED HORIZONTALLY
AGAINST A WALL

®FLAG PLACED OVER A CASKET

Figure 30 to ®. Display and salute of the flag.

40

e. When displayed over the middle of a street,
the flag is suspended vertically with the union to
the north in an east-west street or to the east in
a north-south street. The flag should be at such a
height as to clear all traffic. However, when suspended over a sidewalk on a rope extending from
a house to a pole at the edge of the sidewalk, the
union will be toward the pole.
f. To indicate mourning, the flag is placed at
halfstaff. (See fig. 30 and 0 and AR 260-10.)
It is hoisted to the top of the staff before it is
lowered to the halfstaff position and again before
it is lowered from the halfstaff position. On
Memorial Day, 30 May, the flag is displayed at
halfstaff from sunrise (reveille) until noon and
at fullstaff from noon until sunset (retreat).
When prescribed by regulations or specially ordered by proper authority, colors and standards
are draped to indicate mourning with two streamers of black crepe 7 feet long and about 12 inches
wide attached to the staff below the spearhead.
(See fig. 30.)
g. At a funeral, the flag is placed lengthwise on
the casket with the union at the head and over the
left shoulder of the deceased. (See fig. 30.) The
casket is carried foot first. The flag is not lowered
into the grave. (See pars. 220n and r.)
h. In a procession with a line of other flags, the
United States flag is in front of the center of the
line. In a procession with a single other flag, the
United States flag is on the marching right. (See
fig. 30.)
i. When the United States flag and those of
other nations are flown from adjacent staffs, the
41

United States flag should be at the right end of
the line or to the observer's left. When flown with
flags of other nations, all staffs should be of equal
height and the flags of equal size so far as possible.
International usage forbids display of one national
flag above that of another in time of peace. Where
the United States flag is one of several flags flown
on adjacent staffs, it will be hoisted first and
lowered last. In a group of flags of States, cities,
or societies, all displayed .from staffs, the United
States flag should be at the center of and at the
highest point in the group. (See fig. 3®.)

NATIONAL FLAG DISPLAYED WITH GROUP OF
FLAGS OF STATES, CITIES, OR SOCIETIES.

Figure 3S.

Display and salute of the flag.

42

O

FLAGS DISPLAYED WITHIN A CHANCEL

Figure S®. Display and salute of the flag.

;. When displayed with another flag from
crossed staffs against a wall, the United States
flag will be on the right (the left of an observer
facing the wall), and its staff will be in front of
that of the other flag. (See fig. 3@.)
k. In chapel, if displayed within the chancel,
the United States flag is at the chaplain's right
as he faces the congregation, and other flags at his
left. (See fig 3@.) If displayed in front of the
chancel, the United States flag is on the right of
the congregation as they face the chaplain, and
other flags on the congregation's left. Similarly, in
674344o-46-4

43

O

NATIONAL FLAG DISPLAYED WITH
ANOTHER FLAG FROM CROSSED STAFFS

Figure 3t.

Display and salute of the flag.

an auditorium or at an assembly where there is a
speaker's platform, indoors or outdoors, the
United States flag is at the right of the speaker's
stand if on the platform and at the right of the
audience if not on the platform, other flags being
on the opposite side from the National flag. If
the United States flag is displayed against the
wall behind the speaker, it should be above and
behind the speaker's stand.
I. On an automobile or on a float in a parade,
the flagstaff may be fastened to the bumper
bracket or in such other upright position that
the flag is displayed prominently and will not
44

be soiled by drooping or blowing against the
vehicle. (See b above and AR 260-10.)
m. The flag is raised and lowered in the manner
described in FM 26-5 and AR 600-25. When not
in use, it is folded in the shape of a cocked hat
as prescribed in AR 260-10. (See fig. 3@.)
n. During the ceremony of hoisting or lowering
the flag, or when it is passing in a parade or in
a review, all persons present, except those actually
engaged in hoisting or lowering the flag at reveille
and retreat, should face it, stand at attention, and
salute. Those present in uniform render the hand
salute. Men not in uniform should remove their
headdress with the right hand and hold it at the left

O

METHOD OF FOLDING FLAG

Figure 3@. Display and salute of the flag.

45

QSALUTING THE FLAG
Figure 30. Display and salute of the flag.

shoulder, with the hand over the heart. Women
should salute by placing the right hand over the
heart. The salute to the flag in a moving column
is rendered as the flag passes. (See fig. 3®.)
o. An unserviceable silk National color (standard) will not be destroyed but will be numbered
and retained as a memento of service by the organization to which it belongs. Flags should never
be rolled on the staff while wet or damp, but
should be hung out flat to dry. For additional information pertaining to the disposition and care
of flags, see AR 260-10.

46

CHAPTER 4
DRILL

34. SCOPE. a. The drill prescribed herein is designed for general use; therefore some of the
explanation is of a general nature which gives
sufficient latitude for adaptation to a specific unit.
Interpretation should be based on these general
provisions, and all should learn to use this manual
as a guide to a common-sense solution of minor
points which are not specifically covered in the
text. Much discussion over trifles or failure to
make appropriate adaptation indicates a failure to
grasp the spirit of the regulations. Higher commanders should encourage subordinates to make
minor adjustments without calling on higher
authority for interpretation. Necessary adaptation
should be simple and should not complicate the
drill. Stress should be placed on precision in execution of the manual of arms and in marching in
step with proper alinement. Nothing inspires the
military spirit more than to see or to be a part of
a compact group moving in unison, confidently
and at a measured cadence. Complicated procedure
destroys this effect.
b. The diagrams of organizations shown in the
figures herein are based specifically on approved
Tables of Organization and Equipment. They
must be adapted to the actual strength of the units
concerned. They may be adapted to any type unit,
47

to changes in Tables of Organization and Equipment, and to the drill space available.
35. PURPOSES OF DRILL. The purposes of drill are
toa. Enable a commander to move his command
from one place to another in an orderly manner
and to provide simple formations from which dispositions for combat may be assumed readily.
b. Aid in disciplinary training by instilling
habits of precision and response to the leader's
orders.
c. Provide a means, through ceremonies, of enhancing the morale of troops, developing the spirit
of cohesion, and giving interesting spectacles to
the public.
d.-Give junior officers and noncommissioned
officers practice in commanding troops.
36. DEFINITIONS. a. Alinement. A straight line on

which several elements are formed or are to be
formed; or the dressing of several elements on a
straight line.
b. Base. The element on which a movement is
regulated.
c. Cadence. The uniform step and rhythm in
marching.
d. Center. The middle point or element of a
command.
e. Column. A formation in which the elements
are placed one behind another. (See par. 136b.)
f. Depth. The space from head to rear of any
formation or of a position, including the leading
48

alid rear elements. The depth of a man is assumed
to be 12 inches.
g. Distance. Space between elements in the direction of depth. Distance is measured, with respect to individuals, from the back of the person
in front to the chest of the person in rear; vehicles,
from the rear end of the vehicle in front to the
front end of the vehicle in rear. Distance between
troops in formation, whether of individuals or
vehicles, is measured from the rear rank of the
unit in front to the front rank of the unit in rear.
Platoon leaders, guides, and others whose position
in a formation is at 40 inches distance from a
rank are themselves considered as a rank. Otherwise the commander of any unit and those accompanying him are not considered in measuring distance between units. The color and guard are
not considered in measuring distance between subdivisions of a unit with which they are posted.
The distance between ranks of dismounted men
is 40 inches in both line and column. For the
distance between vehicles, see paragraphs 173 and
174. (See fig. 4.)
h. Double time. Cadence at the rate of 180 steps
per minute. (See y below.)
i. Element. An individual, squad, section, platoon, company, or larger unit forming a part of
a still larger unit.
j. File. A column of individuals or vehicles one
behind the other. (See fig. 4.)
k. Flank. The right of left of a command in line
or in column, or the element on the right or left
of the line.
I. Formation. Arrangement of the elements of a
49

I

RANK

FILE

DISTANCE

INTERVAL

INCHES

Figure 4. Rank, file, interval, distance.

50

command in line, in column, or in any other prescribed manner.
m. Front. The space occupied by an element
measured from one flank to the opposite flank. The
front of a man is assumed to be 22 inches.
n. Guide. An individual upon whom the command (or elements thereof) regulates its march.
o. Head. The leading element of a column.
p. Interval. Space laterally between elements of
the same line. Interval is measured, with respect
to individuals, from the shoulder or elbow; vehicles, from the hub of the wheel or the track.
Between troops in formation, it is measured from
the left flank of the unit on the right to the right
flank of the unit on the left. The commander of
any unit or of any element thereof, and those
accompanying him are not considered in measuring intervals between units. The color and color
guard are not considered in measuring the interval between subdivisions of a unit with which
they are posted. The normal interval between individuals is one arm's length; the close interval
is 4 inches. The interval between vehicles is discussed in paragraphs 173 and 174. (See fig. 4.)
q. Left. The left extremity or element of a body
of troops.
r. Line. A formation in which the different elements are abreast of each other. (See par. 136b.)
s. Mass formation. The formation of a company
or larger unit in which the elements in column
are abreast of each other at less than normal distances and intervals.
t. Pace. A step of 30 inches; the length of the
full step in quick time.
51

u. Piece. As used in this manual, an individual
firearm such as rifle, carbine, or automatic rifle.
v. Quick time. Cadence at the rate of 120 steps
per minute. (See y below.)
w. Rank. A line of individuals or vehicles placed
side by side. (See fig. 4.)
. x. Right. The right extremity or element of a
body of troops.
y. Step; The normal pace in marching. It is the
distance measured from heel to heel- between the
feet of a man marching. The half step and back
step are 15 inches. The right step and left step
are 12 inches. The steps in quick and double time
are 30 and 36 inches, respectively.
37. PRECISION IN DRILL. Drills should be frequent and of short duration. Smartness and precision should be required in the execution of every
detail.
38. USE OF RIGHT AND LEFT. The explanation of a
movement in the text that may be executed toward
either flank is generally given for execution
toward but one flank. To adapt such a description
to execution of the movement toward the opposite
flank, it is necessary only to substitute the word
"left" for "right" or "right" for "left," as the case
requires.
39. DOUBLE TIME. a. Any movement may be executed in double time, unless obviously impractical.
52

b. If a unit is at a halt or marching in quick
time and it is desired that a movement be executed
in double time, the command DOUBLE TIME precedes the command of execution.
40. TO REVOKE A COMMAND.

To revoke a com-

mand or to begin again a movement improperly
begun from a halt, the command AS YOU WERE
is given, at which the movement ceases and the
former position is resumed.
41. GENERAL RULES FOR GUIDE.

a. Unless other-

wise announced, the guide of an element of a company in column or line is right.
b. To march with the guide other than as prescribed above or to change the guide, the command
GUIDE RIGHT (LEFT, CENTER) is given. The
leading man in each file is responsible for the interval. The guide is responsible for the direction
and cadence of march.
c. The announcement of the guide, when made
in connection with a moverment, follows the command of execution for the movement.
d. In column, the guide of the leading platoon
is charged with the step and direction; the guides
in the rear preserve the trace, step, and distance.
e. When a platoon in line is given the command:
1. RIGHT, 2. FACE, the platoon guide will execute

right face with the platoon, and immediately face
to the right in marching and march to a position
in front of the right squad leader, halt, and execute left face.
53

f. When a platoon in column is given the command: 1. COLUMN OF FILES FROM THE LEFT,
2. MARCH, the guide will, on the preparatory
command, take position in front of the left file so
that he will be at the head of the column.
g. When a platoon in column is given the command: 1. COLUMN OF TWOS FROM THE LEFT,
2. MARCH, the guide will, on the preparatory
command, take position in front of the second file
from the left so that he will be at the head of the
right file of the column.
42. PARTIAL CHANGES OF DIRECTION.

a.

Partial

changes of direction may be executed by interpolating in the preparatory command the word
"half," as COLUMN HALF RIGHT (LEFT), so as to
change direction 45 ° .
b. Slight changes in direction are effected by
the command INCLINE TO THE RIGHT
(LEFT). The guide or guiding element moves in
the indicated direction, and the remainder of the
command conforms.
43. NUMBERING UNITS. For drill purposes, platoons within each company and squads within
each platoon may be numbered from right to left
when in line, and from front to rear when in
column.
44. POSTS OF OFFICERS, NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS, GUIDONS, AND SPECIAL UNITS. a. The posts

of officers, noncommissioned officers, guidons, and
special units in the various formations of units are
shown in the figures or explained in the text.
54

b. When changes of formation involve changes
of posts, the new post is taken by the most direct
route, except where otherwise prescribed, as soon
as practicable after the command of execution for
the movement; officers and noncommissioned officers who have prescribed duties in connection
with the movement take their new posts when
such duties are completed. In executing any
movement or facing when alining units, or in
moving from one post to another, officers and
noncommissioned officers maintain a military
bearing and move with precision.
c. In subsequent movements after the initial
formation, guidons and special units maintain
their relative positions with respect to the flank
or end of the command on which they were originally posted.
d. In all formations and movements, a noncommissioned officer commanding an element takes
the same post as prescribed for an officer in command. His piece is carried in the prescribed manner. When giving commands, making reports, or
drilling a unit, a noncommissioned officer armed
with a rifle carries it at the right shoulder.
e. When acting as instructors, officers and noncommissioned officers go wherever their presence
is necessary. They correct mistakes and insure
steadiness and proper performance in ranks.

55

CHAPTER 5
COMMANDS

Section I. GENERAL
45. COMMANDS. a. A command is the direction
of the commander expressed orally and in prescribed wording.
b. Unless otherwise indicated, commands are
given by the commander of the unit concerned.
c. There are two kinds of commands:
(1) The preparatory command, such as FORWARD, which indicates the movement that is to be
executed. When appropriate, the preparatory command includes the unit designation.
(2) The command of execution, such as
MARCH, HALT, or ARMS, which causes the
desired movement, or halt, or element of the
manual to be executed.
(3) In certain commands, the preparatory command and the command of execution are combined, as for example: FALL IN, AT EASE, and
REST.
d. Preparatory commands are indicated in this
manual by SMALL CAPITALS and those of execution
by LARGE CAPITALS.
e. Generally, when giving commands to troops,
the commander faces them. When the platoon is
part of a larger unit at drill or ceremonies, the
leader turns his head toward the unit to give
commands but does not face about.
56

f. Subordinate leaders repeat preparatory commands and give the proper new command or caution for the movement of their own unit except
in platoon and mass formations when all men of
the unit are to execute the movement simultaneously. (See par. 155b.)
g. If at a halt, the commands for movements
involving marching, such as 1. COLUMN RIGHT,
2. MARCH, are not prefaced by the command
FORWARD.

h. All movements for the purpose of instruction may be divided into motions and executed in
detail. When movements are being executed by
the numbers, the command of execution determines the prompt execution of the first motion.
The other motions are executed in proper sequence at the commands TWO, THREE, etc. To
execute the movement in detail, the instructor
commands BY THE NUMBERS. All movements thereafter are executed in detail, one motion for each
count, until the command WITHOUT THE NUMBERS.
Section II. THE COMMAND VOICE
46. GENERAL. Proper execution of any command
depends first on the voice in which it is given. A
properly delivered command is loud and distinct
enough to be clearly understood by every person
in the unit. It is given with an inflection, a
cadence, and a snap that inspire prompt, precise,
simultaneous response. These qualities of loudness, distinctness, inflection, cadence, and snap
are those which, properly used, enable a com57

mander to obtain effective results with the minimum of effort and strain.
47. LOUDNESS. a. The loudness or volume of a
command should be proportioned to the number
of men for whom it is intended and the distance
it must carry. The commander normally places
himself centrally and faces his unit so that his
voice reaches the maximum number of men with
approximately equal force.
b. Undue physical exertion is unnecessary and
harmful. Taking a huge breath, tensing the
frame, contracting the throat muscles, or drawing
in and stiffening the jaws strains the vocal and
physical apparatus. By using sheer force, the
normal flow of sound is restricted, and a minimum
result is attained with a maximum effort.
c. Ease in projecting the voice is achieved
through good posture, proper breathing, and correct adjustment of the muscles of the throat and
mouth.
d. The best posture for giving commands is the
position of the soldier at attention.
e. The most important muscle used in breathing is the diaphragm, the large powerful muscle
separating the chest cavity from the abdominal
cavity. The diaphragm automatically controls the
breath in normal breathing and in ordinary conversation. It should be used to control the breath
when giving commands. Tensing the throat or
chest muscles in an effort to force out the sound
should be avoided. Deep breathing develops the
diaphragm and has a tonic effect on the whole
body. The following exercise,. plus frequent deep
58

breathing exercises, will help develop proper
breathing. Take a deep breath. While holding the
air in the lungs, open the mouth and relax the
throat muscles. Then say "Huh" and "Ha" as
shortly as possible. Do not tense any of the throat
muscles. Make the sounds entirely by expelling
short puffs of air from the lungs, using only the
diaphragm and the muscles around the waist.
When this is done properly, a distinct movement
of the abdominal muscles can be felt. Continue
this exercise, increasing the effort and volume
until it is a natural action.
f. The cavities of the throat, mouth, and nose
act as amplifiers to give resonance (fullness) and
projection to the voice. Aids to resonance are
keeping the throat relaxed and open, loosening the
lower jaw and lips so that the mouth is normally
well opened and the mouth cavity enlarged, and
prolonging the vowel sounds. To project the command, the imagination should be used to focus
the voice on a distinct spot or on the man farthest
away. The following exercise will help develop
ease in projection:
(1) Practice yawning to get the feel of the
open mouth and throat.
(2) Sing or pronounce aloud the vowels, especially "Ah" and "Oh," exaggerating the position
of the lips and noting how resonance is achieved.
(3) Practice counting, or pronouncing commands like FORWARD, COLUMN LEFT, COMPANY, in
a firm full voice. Keep the exercise at a uniform
cadence, but prolong the syllables (CAH-LUM
LEHFT). Stand erect, breathe properly, relax the

throat, open the mouth, and project the voice.
674344°--46-5

59
59

48. DISTINCTNESS. a. Distinctness depends on the
proper use of the tongue, lips, and teeth to form
the separate sounds of a word and on proper
grouping of the sounds to form syllables. Indistinct commands cause confusion. Indistinctness
may be caused by laziness, by tenseness in the
muscles of the mouth, or by trying to give the
command too rapidly. The result is a slurred command with some sounds omitted or with several
syllables run together into one. FORWARD may become FOHWARD or FWAHT. The insertion of extra
syllables (CAH-HOL-LUM in place of CAH-LUM) is

equally undesirable.
b. All commands can be correctly pronounced
without loss of effect. The emphasis should be
placed on proper enunciation (distinctness),
rather than on variations in pronunciation as an
aid to understanding commands. The following
exercises may be used to develop clear enunciation:
(1) Practice giving commands slowly and distinctly, prolonging the syllables and exaggerating
the action of the lips, tongue, and jaw.
(2) Count the cadence, "One, two, three, four;
one, two, three, four"; then give a command such
as 1. FIRST SQUAD BY THE RIGHT FLANK, 2. MARCH
without interrupting the cadence, thus:
one

two

three

FIRST

SQUAD

BY THE RIGHT FLANK

four
MARCH

Pronounce each word distinctly. For example, do
not say "firsquad."
60

49.: INFLECTION. Inflection is the rise and fall of
the voice. It is used to avoid monotony and to gain
emphasis. The preparatory command should be
started near the natural pitch of the voice and
should be spoken with a rising inflection. The
command of execution should be in a pitch slightly
higher than that of the last syllable of the preparatory command. The best exercise is to practice
with the commands themselves, beginning with
simple commands like 1. PLATOON, 2. HALT, and
working up to the longer, more complex commands.
50. CADENCE. a. The cadence should be adjusted
to that of quick time, even though no marching is
involved, as, for instance, in the manual of arms.
Giving commands in unison while marching at
quick time is a good exercise for developing this
cadence. The interval or pause between the preparatory command and the command of execution
should be adapted to the size of the unit. It should
be of uniform length for any given unit, so that
everybody in the unit will know when to expect
the command of execution and be prepared to respond instantaneously.
b. For the squad or platoon, the best interval is
that which allows the planting of one foot between
the two commands- F O-R - W A R D - (step)MARCH.
c. For the company or larger unit, the interval
must be long enough to permit subordinate commanders to repeat the preparatory command or to
give the proper command for their particular
61

units and allow men time to be prepared for the
command of execution. Practice with the units
themselves or with individuals representing the
subordinate commanders is the best exercise in
achieving this.
51. SNAP. Snap is that extra quality in a command that demands instantaneous response. It
expresses confidence, alertness, and decisivenessin other words, complete control of one's self and
the situation. To achieve it, the commander must
be sure of his knowledge of the commands and of
his power to voice them effectively. The erect posture, effortless breathing, resonance, clear enunciation, rising inflection, and quick cadence that contribute to the command voice all help to produce
this snap. They are summed up in the command
of execution which gives the signal for the movement to take place. Loud but not hoarse, crisply
clear, pitched relatively high, it should snap out
at the expected instant with the effect of a whip
or a starter's ',Go !"

Section III. MASS COMMANDS
52. PURPOSE. By requiring the individual to rely
upon his own initiative and intelligence both to
give commands correctly and to execute properly
the movement ordered, mass commands assist in
overcoming diffidence, timidity, and awkwardness
and develop confidence, self-reliance, assertiveness, and enthusiasm.
62

a. Each individual
is required to give commands as if he alone were
giving them to the entire unit. The volume of
the combined voices encourages each man to exert
himself in performing the movements with snap
and precision.
b. Mass commands in drill are usually confined
to simple movements with short preparatory commands and commands of execution which are executed simultaneously by all elements of the unit.
Movements which require a repetition of the preparatory command by subordinate leaders or instructors are not applicable to mass commands.
c. The instructor describes the exercise to be
executed and gives such instructions as are necessary for proper execution of the movement. He
then causes the group to give the command to put
it into operation. Examples are:

53. METHOD OF INSTRUCTION.

(1) Instructor. 1. Call the platoon to attention, 2. COMMAND.
Mass.

1. PLATOON, 2. ATTENTION.

(2) Instructor. 1. Face the platoon to the
right, 2. COMMAND.
1. RIGHT, 2. FACE.
Mass.
(3) Instructor. 1. Have the platoon stand at
parade rest, 2. COMMAND.
Mass.

1. PARADE, 2. REST.

(4) Instructor. 1. Halt the platoon, 2. COMMAND.
Mass.

1. PLATOON, 2. HALT.
63

(5) Instructor. 1. March the platoon forward
eight paces and halt, 2. COMMAND.
Mass.
1. FORWARD, 2 MARCH, one,
two, three, four, 3. PLATOON,
(step), 4. HALT, one, two.
d. Continuous movements may be conducted as
follows:
(1)

Instructor. All movements until further
notice will be at YOUR command.
(2) Instructor. 1. FORWARD MARCH, 2. COMMAND.
Mass.
1. FORWARD, 2. MARCH.
(3) Instructor. 1. BY THE RIGHT FLANK, 2.
COMMAND.
Mass.
1. BY THE RIGHT FLANK, 2.
MARCH.
(4) When the instructor desires to terminate
mass commands, he cautions "At my command."
54. COUNTING CADENCE.

Counting cadence is a

valuable aid in teaching new men group coordination, cadence, and rhythm. The command is:
1. COUNT CADENCE, 2. COUNT, the command of

execution being given as the left foot strikes the
ground. The group then calls the cadence for eight
steps in a firm vigorous manner commencing with
the next strike of the left foot as follows: ONE,
two, three, four, ONE, two, three, four. This command is not executed in a boisterous manner -or
by shouting.
64

CHAPTER 6
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER WITHOUT ARMS

Section I. GENERAL
55. DUTIES OF INSTRUCTOR. The instructor briefly
explains each movement and then demonstrates it.
He requires men to take the proper positions unassisted and touches them only for the purpose
of correction when they are unable to correct
themselves. He avoids keeping them too long at
any position or movement. When practicable, they
should be faced away from the sun. Each position
or movement must be understood before passing to
another. The instructor exacts by degrees the desired precision and uniformity.
56. GROUPING. a. Men are placed in small groups
in order to facilitate individual instruction. Each
group is formed as a squad. (See par. 119.)
b. As instruction progresses; they are grouped
according to proficiency. Those who show a lack
of aptitude and quickness are separated from the
others and placed under the most experienced drill
masters. Care should be taken that men who are
naturally inapt are not ridiculed or treated
harshly. An officer should carefully superintend
the instruction of such men to insure that they
are given firm, but quiet and considerate handling.
65

Section II. POSITIONS
57. POSITION OF THE SOLDIER AT ATTENTION.

a.

(1) Heels on the same line and as near each other
as the conformation of the man permits.
(2) Feet turned out equally and forming an
angle of 45 ° .

(3) Knees straight without stiffness.
(4) Hips level and drawn back slightly; body
erect and resting equally on hips, chest lifted and
arched; shoulders square and falling equally.
(5) Arms hanging straight down without stiffness so that the thumbs are along the seams of
the trousers; backs of the hands out; fingers held
naturally.
(6) Head erect and squarely to the front; chin
drawn in so that the axis of the head and neck is
vertical; eyes straight to the front.
(7) Weight of the body resting equally on the
heels and the balls of the feet.
b. In assuming the position of the soldier at
attention, the heels are brought together smartly
and audibly. (See fig. 5.)
58. RESTS. All rests are executed from the halt.
The commands are: FALL OUT; REST; AT
EASE; and 1. PARADE, 2. REST.

a. At the command FALL OUT, men leave
ranks but are required to remain in the immediate
vicinity. They resume their former places at attention at the command FALL IN.
b. At the command REST, one foot is kept in
place. Silence and immobility are not required.
66

;

i_
_

Figure 5. Position of the soldier at attention.

67

c. At the command AT EASE, the right foot is
kept in place. Silence, but not immobility, is required.
d. At the command of execution REST, of 1.
PARADE, 2. REST, move the left foot smartly 12
inches to the left of the right foot, keeping the
legs straight so that the weight of the body rests
equally on both feet. At the same time, clasp the
hands behind the back, palms to the rear, thumb
and fingers of the right hand clasping the left
thumb without constraint; preserve silence and
immobility. This command is executed from the
position of attention only. (See fig. 6.)
e. Being at any of the rests except FALL OUT,
to resume the position of attention, the commands
are: 1. SQUAD, 2 ATTENTION. At the command
ATTENTION, take the position of the soldier as
described in paragraph 57.
59. EYES RIGHT OR LEFT. The commands are:
1. EYES, 2. RIGHT (LEFT), 3. READY, 4. FRONT.
At the command RIGHT, each man turns his head
and eyes smartly to the right. At the command
FRONT, the head and eyes are turned smartly to
the front.
60. FACINGS.

All facings are executed from the
halt and in the cadence of quick time.
a. To the flank. (1) The commands are: 1. RIGHT
(LEFT), 2. FACE. At the command FACE, which
is the count of ONE in this movement, slightly
raise the left heel and the right toe; face to the
right, turning on the right heel, assisted by a
slight pressure on the ball of the left foot. Hold the
68

Figure 6. Paraderest.

69

RIGHT FACE

ONE

Figure 7. Right face.

70

TWO

ABOUT FACE

ONE

Figure 8. About face.

Figure 7.About face.
71

TWO

left leg straight without stiffness. (TWO) Place
the left foot smartly beside the right. (See fig. 7.)
(2) Execute 1. LEFT, 2. FACE by turning on the
left heel and the ball of the right foot in a corresponding manner.
b. To the rear. The commands are: 1. ABOUT,
2. FACE. At the command FACE, carry the toe
of the right foot to a position touching the ground
a half-foot length to the rear and slightly to the
left of the left heel without changing the position
of the left foot; weight of the body mainly on the
heel of the left foot; right leg straight without
stiffness. (TWO) Face to the rear, turning to
the right on the left heel and on the ball of
the right foot; place the right heel beside the left.
(See fig. 8.) In facing about, the arms are held
in the normal position of attention and not allowed to swing wide. Men are taught to experiment with the position in which they place the toe
of the right foot until they have attained balance
and self-assurance in execution.
61. HAND SALUTE. a. The commands are: 1. HAND,
2. SALUTE. At the command SALUTE, raise the
right hand smartly until the tip of the forefinger
touches the lower part of the headdress or forehead above and slightly to the right of the right
eye, thumb and fingers extended and joined, palm
down, upper arm horizontal, forearm inclined at
450, hand and wrist straight; at the same time
turn the head and eyes toward the person saluted.
(See fig. 9.) (TWO) Return the hand smartly in
one motion to its.normal position by the side, at

72

the same time turn the head and eyes to the front,
unless already turned in that direction.
b. Saluting distance is, that distance at which
recognition is easy. Usually it does not exceed 30
paces. The salute is rendered when the person to

Figure 9. Hand salute.

73

be saluted is 6 paces distant, or at the nearest
point of approach if it is apparent that he is not
going to approach to within 6 paces. Hold the
first position of the salute until the person saluted
has passed or the salute is returned. Then execute
the second movement of the hand salute. (See
fig. 10.)
c. At the command of execution ARMS of the
command PRESENT ARMS, men not armed, men
with the weapon slung, and men equipped. With a
weapon which has no manual of arms or for which
the manual of arms does not prescribe a salute
using the weapon, execute the hand salute, holding
the salute until the command of execution ARMS
of the command ORDER ARMS. When the hand
salute is executed with the weapon slung from the
right shoulder, the left hand is placed on the sling
to steady the weapon. (See pars. 84, 85, 100g,
101e, and 113a.)

Section III. STEPS AND MARCHINGS
62. GENERAL. a. When executed from a halt, all

steps and marchings except right step begin with
the left foot.
b. The instructor indicates the proper cadence
when necessary by counting cadence. (See par.
54.) Counting by the instructor should be held
to the minimum.
c. Commands, both preparatory and of execution, are given as the foot in the direction of turn
strikes the ground.
74

AN OFFICER. ANO AFTER RECEIVNG:
HISORDERSOR INSTRUCTIONS

AFTERA CONVERSAT ON I TH

SALUTE WHEN THE NAT ONAL ANTHEM
OR TO THE COLORS IS PLAYED AND
YOU ARE

OUT-OF-DOORS,

SALUTE THE NATIONAL COLORS
OR STANDARDS WHENEVER YOU
PASSTHEM OUT-OFPDOORS.

Figure 10. When to salute.
75

674344°-46-6

63. QUICK TIME. To march forward in quick time,
being at a halt, the commands are: 1. FORWARD,
2. MARCH. At the command FORWARD, shift the
weight of the body to the right leg without perceptible movement. At the command MARCH,
step off smartly with the left foot and continue
the march with 30-inch steps taken straight forward without stiffness or exaggeration of movements. Swing the arms easily in their natural arcs,
6 inches straight to the front and 3 inches to the
rear of the body. (See pars. 36v and y.)

64. DOUBLE TIME. a. To march in double time, be-

ing at a halt or in march in quick time, the commands are: 1. DOUBLE TIME, 2. MARCH. (See
pars. 36h and y).
(1) If at a halt, at the command DOUBLE TIME,
shift the weight of the body to the right leg without perceptible movement. At the command
MARCH, raise the forearms, fingers closed,
knuckles out, to a horizontal position along the
waistline and take up an easy "jog" with the step
and cadence of double time, allowing the arms to
take a natural swinging motion across the front
of the body. Be sure to keep forearms horizontal.
(2) If marching in quick time, at the command
MARCH, given as either foot strikes the ground,
take one more step in quick time and then step
off in double time.
b. To resume the quick time from double time,
the commands are: 1. QUICK TIME, 2. MARCH. At
the command MARCH, given as either foot strikes
76

the ground, advance and plant the other foot in
double time; resume the quick time, dropping the
hands by the sides.
65. HALT. The commands are: 1. SQUAD, 2. HALT.
a. When marching in quick time, at the command HALT, given as either foot strikes the
ground, execute the halt in two counts by advancing and planting the other foot and then bringing
up the foot in rear.
b. When marching in double time, at the command HALT, given as either foot strikes the
ground, advance and plant the other foot as in
double time, then halt in two counts as in quick
time.
c. When executing side step, at the command
HALT, given as the heels are together, plant the
foot next in cadence and come to' the halt when
the heels are next brought together.
66. MARK TIME. The commands are: 1. MARK
TIME, 2. MARCH.
a. Being in march, at the command MARCH,
given as either foot strikes the ground, advance
and plant the other foot; then bring up the foot
in rear, placing it so that both heels are on line,
and continue the cadence by alternately raising
and planting each foot. When the feet are raised,
the balls of the feet are 2 inches from the ground.
b. Being at a halt, at the command MARCH,
raise and plant first the left foot, then the right
as described above.
77

c. Mark time may be executed in either quick
time or double time.
d. The halt is executed from mark time as from
quick time or double time by taking 2-inch vertical
steps (par. a above) in place of 30-inch horizontal
steps. Forward march, halt, and mark time may
be executed one from the other in quick or double
time.
67. HALF STEP. a. The commands are: 1. HALF
STEP, 2. MARCH. At the command MARCH, take
steps of 15 inches in quick time in the manner described in paragraph 63. The half step is executed
in quick time only.
b. To resume the full step from half step or

mark time, the commands are: 1. FORWARD,
2. MARCH.
68. SIDE STEP. The commands are: 1. RIGHT
(LEFT) STEP; 2. MARCH. At the command
MARCH, carry the right foot 12 inches to the
right; then place the left foot beside the right, left
knee straight. Continue in the cadence of quick
time. The side step is executed in quick time from
a halt for short distances only.
69. BACK STEP. The commands are: 1. BACKWARD,
2. MARCH. At the command MARCH, take steps
of 15 inches straight to the rear. The back step is
executed in quick time from a halt for short distances only.
78

70. TO FACE IN MARCHING. The facings in march-

ing are an important part of such movements as
column right, close, take interval, and extend. For
individual or group instruction in facing to the
right (left) in marching, the commands: 1. BY
THE RIGHT (LEFT) FLANK, 2. MARCH may be
used. (See par. 72.)
a. To face to the right or left in marching and
advance from a halt, at the command of execution
of the movement, turn to the right or left on the
ball of the right foot and at the same time step off
with the left foot in the new direction with a half
or full step in quick or double time, as the case
may be.
b. To face to the right (left) in marching and
advance, being in march, at the command of execution, given as the right (left) foot strikes the
ground, advance and plant the left (right) foot;
then face to the right (left) in marching and step
off with the right (left) foot in the new direction
with a half or full step in quick or double time, as
the case may be.
71. TO FACE TO THE REAR IN MARCHING.
commands are: 1. TO THE REAR, 2. MARCH.

The

a. Being in march at quick time, at the command MARCH, given as the right foot strikes the
ground, advance and plant the left foot; then turn
to the rightabout on the balls of both feet and
immediately step off with the left foot. (See
fig. 11.)
b. Being in march at double time, at the command MARCH, given as the right foot strikes the
79

ground, advance two steps in the original direction; turn to the rightabout while taking four
steps in place, keeping the cadence, and step off.

L

L

MARCH

-.
ONE

.

Figure 11. To the rear, march.

72. TO MARCH BY THE FLANK. Being in march,
the commands are: 1. BY THE RIGHT (LEFT)
FLANK, 2. MARCH. At the command MARCH,

the right foot. (See fig. 12.)
80

BY THE RIGHT FLANK

#II

MARCH

AW

Xf

N.D I [ ED
E

AElE El

0mm mm
Figure 12.. By the right flank, march.

81

73. TO CHANGE STEP.

The commands are:

1.

2. MARCH. Being in march in
quick time, at the command MARCH, given as
the right (left) foot strikes the ground, advance
and plant the left foot; then plant the toe of the
right foot near the heel of the left and step off
with the left foot.
CHANGE STEP,

74. TO MARCH OTHER THAN AT ATTENTION. The
commands are: 1. ROUTE STEP, 2. MARCH or 1.
AT EASE, 2. MARCH.
a. 1. ROUTE STEP, 2. MARCH. At the command

MARCH, men are not required to maintain silence
or to march in cadence at attention.
b. 1. AT EASE, 2. MARCH. At the command
MARCH, men are not required to march in
cadence at attention, but are required to maintain
silence.

82

CHAPTER 7
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER WITH ARMS

Section I. GENERAL
As soon as practicable,
the soldier is taught the use, care, and nomenclature of his weapon. When fair progress has been
made in instruction without arms, he is taught the
manual of arms. Instruction without arms and
with arms should alternate.
75. EARLY INSTRUCTION.

76. GENERAL. a. FALL IN is executed with the
rifle at the order arms and with the automatic rifle
and carbine at sling arms. (See pars. 100 and
113.)
b. When troops are formed under arms, pieces
are immediately inspected at the commands: 1.
INSPECTION, 2. ARMS.

A similar inspection is

made before dismissal. If cartridges are found
in the chamber, receiver, or magazine, they are
removed and placed in the belt.
c. (1) Rifles are habitually carried at right
shoulder arms. Automatic rifles and carbines are
habitually carried at sling arms.
(2) Weapons are not carried with cartridges
in either the chamber or the receiver except when
specifically ordered. When loaded (actual or simulated), they are carried locked. At all other
times they are carried unlocked, with the trigger
83

pulled, to prevent damage from long-continued
compression of the hammer spring.
d. (1) Before starting any movement for troops
armed with rifles, except those movements indicated in f below, the commands: 1. RIGHT SHOULDER (SLING), 2. ARMS, are given before the command for movement.
(2) Movements for short distances may be executed at the trail by prefacing the preparatory
command with the command AT TRAIL as 1, AT
TRAIL, FORWARD, 2. MARCH. The trail is taken at
the command MARCH, and the order resumed on
halting.
(3) When the facings, alinements, opening and
closing of ranks, side step, back step, forming for
shelter tents, extending and closing are executed
with the rifle at order arms, the weapon is brought
to the trail while in motion, and the order is
resumed on halting. The position of trail arms is
taken at the command of execution in each case.
(4) At the command HALT, men armed with
the rifle remain at the position of right (left)
shoulder arms until the command: 1. ORDER, 2.
ARMS, is given.
(5) Unless the automatic rifle and carbine are
already slung, they are slung from the right
shoulder at the command ARMS of 1. RIGHT
SHOULDER, 2. ARMS. They are kept slung until
the command REST or UNSLING ARMS, except
in the case of carbines when executing port and
inspection arms. (See pars. 114 and 115.) In
long halts at attention, the men carrying such
equipment may be directed to unsling arms. (See
pars. 100 and 113.)
84

e. The bayonet is fixed only when so ordered.
f. In double time under arms, a disengaged
hand is held as when without arms.
g. Being at sling arms, not in ranks, the individual soldier renders the hand salute.
h. For action of men armed with a weapon
which has no manual of arms, when the command
PRESENT ARMS is given, see paragraph 61c.
Section II. MANUAL OF ARMS FOR THE RIFLE
77. RULES GOVERNING EXECUTION OF MANUAL OF

ARMS. Except where otherwise indicated, these
rules will be applicable alike to the U.S. rifle,
caliber .30, M1, and the U.S. rifle, caliber .30,
M1903.
a. In all positions of the left hand at the balance, the thumb clasps the rifle; the sling is included in the grasp of the hand. (See fig. 13.)
In describing the manual of arms, the term "at
the balance" refers to points on rifles as follows:
(1) U. S. rifle, caliber .30, Ml. A point just forward of the trigger housing.
(2) U. S. rifle, caliber .30, M1903. The center
of the rear sight.
b. In all positions of the rifle, diagonally across
the body, the barrel is up, butt in front of the
right hip, barrel crossing opposite the junction of
the neck with the left shoulder. The rifle is
grasped at the balance with the left hand, palm
toward the body, wrist straight. (See fig, 13.)
c. The cadence of the motions is that of quick
time. Trainees are first required to give their
85

I

I

Figure 13. Left hand
at the balance.

Figure 14. Position of
order arms.

86

whole attention to the details of the motions, the
cadence being gradually acquired as they become
accustomed to handling their rifles. The instructor
may require them to count aloud in cadence with
the motions.
d. The manual is taught at a halt. For the purpose of instruction, it may be taught BY THE
NUMBERS. (See par. 45h.) It is not executed in
marching except when marching at attention, to
pass from right shoulder to left shoulder or port
arms and the reverse. These movements may be
used to add interest to the drill or to prevent
fatigue in long marches at attention.
e. Any appropriate position of the manual of
arms may be ordered from a previous position by
giving the suitable commands.
The butt of the
rifle rests on the ground, barrel to the rear, toe of
the butt on line with the toe of, and touching the
right shoe, right hand holding the rifle between
the thumb and fingers, left hand as in the position
of the soldier without arms. (See fig. 14.)
78. POSITION OF ORDER ARMS.

79. TRAIL ARMS. Being at order arms. 1. TRAIL,

2. ARMS. At the command ARMS, raise the rifle
and incline the muzzle forward so that the barrel
makes an angle of about 150 with the vertical, the
right arm slightly bent. (See fig. 15.)
80. ORDER ARMS. Being at trail arms. 1. ORDER,

2. ARMS. At the command ARMS, lower the rifle
with the right hand and resume the order.
87

Figure 15. Position of

Figure 16. Position of

trail arws.

sling arms.

88

81. SLING ARMS. Being at order arms. 1. SLING,

2. ARMS. This movement is not executed in
cadence and applies to any rifle, automatic rifle,
light machine gun, light mortar, etc. Loosen the
sling, if not already loosened, and in the most
convenient manner assume the position shown in
figure 16. This position is authorized for long
parades, long reviews, and for occasions when
the prolonged holding of the piece becomes a hardship on the troops. When used in ceremonies, the
bayonet may be fixed.
82. UNSLING ARMS. Being at sling arms. 1. UNSLING, 2. ARMS, 3. ADJUST, 4. SLINGS. At the
command ARMS, pieces are unslung. At the command SLINGS, slings are adjusted to the drill
position. This adjustment of the sling will be
made before precise movements of the manual
are to be executed.
83. PORT ARMS. Being at order arms. 1. PORT,
2. ARMS. At the command ARMS, raise the rifle
with the right hand and carry it diagonally across
the front of the body until the right hand is in
front of and slightly to the left of the face so that
the barrel is up, butt in front of the right hip,
barrel crossing opposite the junction of the neck
and the left shoulder. At the same time, grasp
the rifle at the balance with the left hand, palm
toward the body, wrist s.traight. (See fig. 170.)
(TWO) Carry the right hand to the small of the
stock, grasping it, palm down, holding right fore89

0

Q

FIRST POSITION

SECOND POSITION

Figure 17. Execution of port arms.

90

arm horizontal; left elbow resting against the
body; the rifle in a vertical plane parallel to the
front. (See fig. 17®.)
84. PRESENT ARMS. Being at order arms. 1. PRESENT, 2. ARMS. At the command ARMS, with the
right hand carry the rifle in front of the center
of the body, barrel to the rear and vertical; grasp
it with the left hand at the balance, forearm horizontal and resting against the body. (TWO)
Grasp the small of the stock with the right hand.
(See fig. 18.)
85. ORDER ARMS. Being at present or port arms.
1. ORDER, 2. ARMS. At the command ARMS, move
the right hand from its grasp of the stock and
regrasp the piece between the upper sling swivel
and stacking swivel. (TWO) Release the grasp
of the left hand and lower the rifle to the right so
that the butt is 3 inches from the ground, barrel
to the rear, left hand with fingers extended and
joined steadying the rifle, forearm and wrist
straight and inclining downward. (See fig. 19.)
(THREE) Complete the order by lowering the
rifle gently to the ground with the right hand.
Cut away the left hand smartly to the side, Care
must be exercised to insure that the rifle is lowered gently and not thrust down forcibly.
86. INSPECTION ARMS. Being at order arms. 1.
INSPECTION, 2. ARMS.

a. U. S. rifle, caliber .30, MI. At the command
ARMS, take the position of port arms. (THREE)
With the fingers of the left hand closed, place the
674344°-46-7

91

Figure 19. Next to
last position in
executing order arms.

Figure 18. Present arms.

92

left thumb on the operating rod handle and push
it smartly to the rear until it is caught by the
operating rod catch; at the same time, lower the
head and eyes sufficiently to glance -into the receiver. (FOUR) Having found the receiver empty
or having emptied it, raise the head and eyes to
the front, at the same time regrasping the piece
with the left hand at the balance.
b. U. S. rifle, caliber .30, M1903. At the command
ARMS, take the position of port arms. (THREE)
Seize the bolt handle with the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, turn the handle up, draw
the bolt back, and lower the head and eyes sufficiently to glance into the magazine. (FOUR) Having found the magazine empty or having emptied
it, raise the head and eyes to the front.
87. ORDER (RIGHT SHOULDER, LEFT SHOULDER, PORT)

ARMS. Being at inspection arms. 1. ORDER (RIGHT
SHOULDER, LEFT SHOULDER, PORT), 2. ARMS.

a. U. S. rifle, caliber .30, Ml. At the preparatory
command, place the rear edge of the right hand
against the operating rod handle with the fingers
extended and joined, forcing the operating rod
handle' slightly to the rear, and at the same time
depress the follower with the right thumb; as the
bolt rides forward over the follower, remove the
thumb from the follower and release the operating
rod handle, pull the trigger, and resume port
arms. At the command ARMS, complete the
movement ordered, except in the case of port
arms, which will already have been executed.
b. U. S. rifle, caliber .30, M1903. At the preparatory command, push the bolt forward, turn the
93

handle down, pull the trigger, and resume port
arms. At the command ARMS, complete the
movement ordered, except in the case of port
arms, which will already have been executed.
88. RIGHT SHOULDER ARMS. Being at order arms.
1. RIGHT SHOULDER, 2. ARMS. At the command
ARMS, raise and carry the rifle diagonally across
the body with the right hand as shown in figure
200, at the same time grasping it at the balance
with the left hand. (TWO) Regrasp it with the
right hand on the butt, the heel between the first
two fingers, thumb and fingers closed on the stock.
(See fig. 200.) (THREE) Without changing the
grasp of the right hand, place the rifle on the right
shoulder, barrel up and inclined at an angle of
about 450 from the horizontal, trigger guard in
the hollow of the shoulder, right elbow against the
side, forearm horizontal, the rifle in a vertical
plane perpendicular to the front. Carry the left
hand, thumb and fingers extended and joined, to
the small of the stock, first joint of the forefinger
touching the rear end of the receiver (or, for the
M1903 rifle, the cocking piece), wrist straight,
and elbow down. (See fig. 200.) (FOUR) Cut
away the left hand smartly to the side. (See
fig. 200.)
89. PORT ARMS. Being at right shoulder arms.
1. PORT, 2. ARMS. At the command ARMS, press
the rifle butt down quickly and throw the rifle
diagonally across the body, at the same time turning the butt clockwise one-quarter turn so as to
bring the barrel up, the right hand, retaining its
94

(

(

FIRST POSITION

o THIRD POSITION

SECOND POSITION

) FOURTH POSITION

Figure 20. Execution of right shoulder arms.

95

grasp on the butt, the left grasping the rifle at
the balance. (TWO) Change the right hand to
the small of the stock.
90. ORDER ARMS. Being at right shoulder arms.
1. ORDER, 2. ARMS. At the command ARMS,
execute the first movement prescribed in paragraph 89 for port arms from right shoulder arms.
(TWO) (THREE) (FOUR) Execute the three
movements prescribed in paragraph 85 for order
arms from port arms.
91. RIGHT SHOULDER ARMS. Being at port arms.
1. RIGHT SHOULDER, 2. ARMS. At the command
ARMS, change the right hand to the butt as described in paragraph 88. (See fig. 20®.) (TWO)
(THREE) Execute the last two movements prescribed in paragraph 88 for right shoulder arms
from order arms. (See fig. 20® and (.)
92. LEFT SHOULDER ARMS. Being at port arms.
1. LEFT SHOULDER, 2. ARMS.

a. At the command ARMS, release the grip of
the left hand on the rifle, and with the right hand
still grasping the small of the stock, place it on
the left shoulder, barrel up, trigger guard in the
hollow of the shoulder. At the same time, grasp
the butt with the left hand, heel of the butt between the first and second fingers, thumb and fingers closed on the stock, left forearm horizontal,
left elbow against the side, the rifle in a vertical
plane perpendicular to the front. (TWO) Drop
the right hand quickly to the right side.
96

b. Left shoulder arms may be ordered when
rifles are at the order, right shoulder, or present.
At the command ARMS, execute port arms and
continue in cadence to the position ordered.
93. PORT ARMS. Being at left shoulder arms.
1. PORT, 2. ARMS. At the command ARMS, grasp
the rifle with the right hand at the small of the
stock. (TWO) Release the grasp of the left hand
and at the same time carry the piece with the right
hand to the position of port arms and then regrasp
it with the left.
94. ORDER (RIGHT SHOULDER) ARMS. Being at left

shoulder arms. 1. ORDER (RIGHT SHOULDER), 2.
ARMS. At the command ARMS, execute port
arms as described in paragraph 93 and continue
in cadence to the position ordered as described in
paragraphs 85 and 88.
95. PARADE REST. Being at order arms. 1. PARADE,

2. REST. At the command REST, move the left
foot smartly 12 inches to the left of the right
foot, keeping the legs straight so that the weight
of the body rests equally on both feet. At the
same time incline the muzzle of the rifle to the
front, the right arm extended, right hand grasping the rifle just below the upper band. Place and
hold the left hand behind the body, resting in the
small of the back, palm to the rear. (See fig. 21.)
Being at parade rest.
96. SQUAD ATTENTION.
1. SQUAD, 2. ATTENTION. At the command

ATTENTION, resume the position of order arms.
97

Figure 21. Position of parade rest.

98

O

SALUTE AT RIGHT
SHOULDER ARMS

(

SALUTE AT
ORDER ARMS

Figure 22. Rifle salute at right shoulder arms
and order arms.

99

97. RIFLE SALUTE. 1. RIFLE, 2. SALUTE. a. Being

at right shoulder arms. At the command SALUTE,
carry the left hand smartly to the small of the
stock, forearm horizontal, palm of the hand down,
thumb and fingers extended and joined, first joint
of the forefinger touching the rear end of the
receiver of the Ml rifle or the end of the cocking
piece of the M1903 rifle; look toward the person
saluted. (See fig. 220.) (TWO) Cut away the
left hand smartly to the side; turn the head and
eyes to the front.
b. Being at order or trail arms. At the command
SALUTE, carry the left hand smartly to the right
side, palm of the hand down, thumb and fingers
extended and joined, forearm and wrist straight,
first joint of forefinger touching the barrel between the stacking swivel and the muzzle at a
point which best suits the conformation of the
man, and look toward the person saluted. (See
fig. 220.) (TWO) Cut away the left hand smartly
to the side; turn the head and eyes to the front.

Being at order arms. 1. FIX,
2. BAYONETS. At the command BAYONETSa. If the bayonet scabbard is on the belt, move
the muzzle of the rifle to the left front and grasp
the rifle below the stacking swivel with the left
hand; grasp the bayonet with the right hand, back
of the hand toward the body; pressing the spring
with the forefinger, draw the bayonet from the
scabbard and fix it on the barrel, glancing at the
muzzle; resume the order. (See fig. 23.)
98. FIX BAYONETS.

100

Figure 23. Fix bayonets.

101

Figure 24. Position of automatio rifle slung over
right shoulder.

b. If the bayonet scabbard is on the haversack,
draw and fix the bayonet in the most convenient
manner.
c. These movements are not executed in cadence.
99. UNFIX BAYONETS. Being at order arms. 1. UNFIX, 2. BAYONETS. At the command BAYONETSa. If the bayonet scabbard is on the belt, take
the position for fixing bayonets; grasp the handle
of the bayonet with the right hand; pressing the
spring, raise the bayonet until the handle is about
12 inches above the muzzle of the rifle; drop the
point to the left, turning the back of the hand
toward the body; and, glancing at the scabbard,
return the bayonet, the blade'passing between the
left arm and the body. Regrasp the rifle with the
right hand and resume the order.
b. If the bayonet scabbard is on the haversack,
remove the bayonet from the rifle as described
above and return it to the scabbard in the most
convenient manner.
c. These movements are not executed in cadence.
Section III. MANUAL OF THE AUTOMATIC RIFLE
100. GENERAL RULES. a. Except when otherwise
prescribed, the automatic rifle is habitually carried slung over the right shoulder, butt down,
barrel to the rear, right hand grasping the sling,
hand in front of armpit. (See fig. 24.)
102

b. For marches and field exercises, the automatic rifle may be carried slung over either
shoulder.
c. When troops are at ease, the automatic rifle
is kept slung unless otherwise ordered.
d. When troops are at rest, the automatic rifle
may be unslung.
e. Only the following movements of the manual
are executed by the automatic rifleman:
(1) Parade rest. Being at sling arms, execute
as without arms keeping the right hand on the
sling.
(2) Inspection arms. Being at sling arms, at
the command ARMS, grasp the magazine with the
left hand; at the same time press the magazine
release with the right hand. Withdraw the magazine with the left hand and place it in the belt.
Pull back the operating handle with the left hand.
(3) To resume sling arms. Being at inspection
arms. 1. ORDER (PORT, RIGHT SHOULDER, LEFT
SHOULDER), 2. ARMS. At the command ARMS,
pull the trigger, replace the magazine, and resume
the position of attention, the automatic rifle being
kept slung.
f. When a unit is formed or dismissed, men
armed with the automatic rifle execute inspection
arms at the commands: 1. INSPECTION, 2. ARMS.
g. Men armed with the automatic rifle salute
with the hand salute when not in ranks, or when
in ranks and the command PRESENT ARMS is
given. (See par. 61c.)
h. For instructions, ceremonies, and drill, the
organization commander may, at his discretion,
substitute rifles for automatic rifles.
103

Section IV. MANUAL OF THE PISTOL

101. GENERAL. a. The movements herein described differ in purpose from the manual of arms
for the rifle in that they are not designed to be
executed in exact unison, there being, with only a
few exceptions, no real necessity for their simultaneous execution. They are not therefore planned
as a disciplinary drill to be executed in cadence
with snap and precision, but merely as simple,
quick, and safe methods of handling the pistol.
b. In general, movements begin and end at the
position of raise pistol.
.c. Officers and enlisted men armed with the
pistol remain at the position of attention during
the manual of arms, but render the hand salute at
the command PRESENT ARMS. (See par. 61c.)
102. RAISE PISTOL. 1. RAISE, 2. PISTOL. At the
command PISTOL, unbutton the flap of the holster with the right hand and grasp the stock, back
of the hand outward. Draw the pistol from the
holster; reverse it, muzzle up, the thumb and last
three fingers holding the stock, the forefinger
extended outside the trigger guard, the barrel of
the pistol to the rear and inclined to the front at
an angle of 30 ° , the hand as high as, and 6 inches
in front of, the point of the right shoulder.
(See fig. 250.)
103. WITHDRAW MAGAZINE.
At the command
WITHDRAW MAGAZINE, without lowering the
right hand, turn the barrel slightly to the right;
104

press the magazine catch with the right thumb
and with the left hand remove the magazine.
(See fig. 250.) Place magazine between the belt
and outer garment.
104. OPEN CHAMBER. At the command OPEN
CHAMBER, withdraw the magazine, if not already withdrawn, and resume the position of
raise pistol. Without lowering the right hand,
grasp the slide with the thumb and the first two
fingers of the left hand (thumb on left side of
slide and pointing downward); keeping the muzzle elevated, shift the grip of the right hand so
that the right thumb engages the slide stop.
(See fig. 250.) Push the slide downward to its
full extent and force the slide stop into its notch
with the right thumb without lowering the muzzle
of the pistol.
105. CLOSE CHAMBER. At the command CLOSE
CHAMBER, with the right thumb press down
the slide stop and let the slide go forward. Squeeze
the trigger, being sure that the muzzle is still
elevated.
106. INSERT MAGAZINE. At the command INSERT MAGAZINE, without lowering the right
hand, turn the barrel to the right. Grasp a magazine with the first two fingers and thumb of the
left hand ; withdraw it from the belt and insert
it in the pistol. Press it fully home.
105

107. LOAD. At the command LOAD, if a loaded
magazine is not already in the pistol, insert one.
Without lowering the right hand, turn the barrel
slightly to the left. Grasp the slide with the thumb
and fingers of the left hand (thumb on right side
of slide and pointing upward.
See fig. 25®.)
Pull the slide downward to its full extent. Release
the slide and engage the safety lock.
108. UNLOAD. At the command UNLOAD, withdraw the magazine. Open the chamber as prescribed in paragraph 104. Glance at the chamber
to verify that it is empty. Close the chamber.
Take the position of raise pistol and squeeze the
trigger. Then insert an empty magazine.
109. INSPECTION ARMS.:1. INSPECTION, 2. ARMS.
At the command ARMS, withdraw the magazine.
Open the chamber as prescribed in paragraph
104. Take the position of raise pistol. The withdrawn magazine is held in the open left hand at
the height of the belt. (See fig. 25®.) After the
pistol has been inspected or at the command 1.
RETURN, 2. PISTOL, close the chamber, take the
position of raise pistol, and squeeze the trigger,
being sure that the muzzle is still elevated. Insert
an empty magazine and execute return pistol.

110. RETURN PISTOL.

1. RETURN, 2. PISTOL.

At

the command PISTOL, lower the pistol to the
holster, reversing it, muzzle down, back of the
106

:,(

RAISE PISTOL

(

WITHDRAW MAGAZINE

a LOAD
(PULLING SLIDE DOWNWARDI

) OPEN CHAMBER.

@) INSPECTION ARMS.

Figure 25. Manual of the pistol.
107

674344°-46--8

hand to the right; raise the flap of the holster
with the right thumb; insert the pistol in the
holster and thrust it home; button the flap of the
holster with the right hand.
"111. MANUAL OF THE PISTOL, MOUNTED. For man-

ual of the pistol, mounted, see FM 23-35.
Section V. MANUAL OF THE CARBINE
112. GENERAL. The manual of the U. S. carbine,

caliber .30, provides for uniform, simple, safe,
and quick methods of handling the piece. Precision and simultaneous execution are seldom required; however, a simple manual is included for
those occasions when its use is desirable. 'Men
armed with the carbine execute inspection carbine
when a unit is formed or dismissed at the command: 1. INSPECTION, 2. ARMS. For loading and

unloading, see FM 23-7.
113. CARRYING POSITION (SLING ARMS).

a.

Ex-

cept as otherwise prescribed, the carbine will
habitually be.carried for drills, ceremonies, and
guard duty slung over the right shoulder, butt
down, barrel to the left, right hand grasping the
sling, hand in front of the armpit. (See fig. 260.)
The magazine normally will be inserted in the receiver for ceremonies and guard duty only. When
troops are at ease, the carbine is kept slung unless
otherwise ordered. When troops are at rest, the
carbine may be unslung and held in any desired
position. In coming to the position of attention,
108

(i

(ACROSS

CA.RINE SLUNG

rOWN
BACKMUZZLE

(

UP
ACROSSSACK MUZZLE

Figure 26. Carrying position for the carbine.

109

the carrying position is assumed. The hand salute
is executed in the normal manner, as without
arms, after releasing the grasp of the right hand
from the sling. (See par. 61c.) The parade rest
is executed as without arms, keeping the right
hand on the sling.
b. For dismounted marches or field exercises,
the carbine will be carried in the manner prescribed by the unit leader. Depending on whether
the unit is to move on foot or by truck, or whether
personnel are to be employed in serving a weapon,
he may choose any of the following methods:
(1) Slung over either right or left shoulder,
with muzzle up. (See fig. 26(.)
(2) Slung across the back, muzzle down, with
sling over the right or left shoulder. (See fig.
260.)
(3) Slung across the back, muzzle up, with
sling over the right or left shoulder. '(See fig.
260.)
(4) Carried in the holster.
114. PORT ARMS. Being at sling arms. To come
to the position of port arms, grasp the sling with
the left hand above the right (fig. 270), lifting
the piece from the shoulder and at the same time
withdrawing the right arm from between the
piece and sling. Grasp the small of the stock
with the right hand, bringing the piece to a vertical plane parallel to and about 4 inches in front
of the center of the body, barrel extending upward
and to the left at an angle of 45 ° . (See fig. 27(0.)
With the left hand grasp the hand guard about 3
inches below the upper band. (See fig. 270.)
110

O

FlRSl POSITION.

D SECONDPOSITION

O

TIRO POSITION

Figur-e 27. Execution of port arms with the carbine.

111

The position of port arms is not assumed when
the carbine is carried in the holster. Port arms
with the carbine is not executed as part of the
manual of arms with the rifle.
115. INSPECTION ARMS. Being at sling arms. Executed at the commands: 1. INSPECTION, 2. ARMS.
At the command of execution, grasp the sling with
the left hand above the right, lifting the piece
from the shoulder and at the same time withdrawing the right arm from between the piece and the
sling. Grasp the small of the stock with the right
hand, resting the butt of-the piece just in front of
the right hip, barrel elevated at an angle of 45 ° ,
muzzle to the front. Press the magazine lock to
the left with the forefinger of the right hand and,
at the same time, withdraw the magazine from
the receiver with the left hand, inserting it between the body and belt in front of the left hip.
(See fig. 280.) Assume the position of port arms.
With the forefinger of the right hand, pull the
operating slide all the way back and press down
on the operating slide catch with the right thumb,
locking the operating slide in its rear position;
regrasp the small of the stock and at the same
time lower the head and eyes suffidiently to glance
into the chamber. Having found the chamber
empty or having emptied it, raise the head and
eyes to the front. (See fig. 28(.) Inspection arms
with the carbine is not executed as part of the
manual of arms with the rifle.
116. TO RESUME SLING ARMS. Being at inspection
arms. Executed at the commands: 1. ORDER
112

(RIGHT SHOULDER), 2. ARMS or 1. RETURN, 2.
PISTOL. At the preparatory command, release
the operating slide by pulling the operating handle
slightly to the rear with the right forefinger and
allowing the slide to go forward; pull the trigger
and replace the magazine. At the command of
execution, sling the carbine over the right shoulder and resume the position of attention.

117. PORT ARMS. Being at inspection arms.
1. PORT, 2. ARMS. At the command PORT, release
the operating slide as described above, pull the
trigger, and replace the magazine. At the command ARMS, complete the movement.

QFIRST POSITION

O

SCCOND POSITION

Figure 28. Execution of inspection arms with the carbine.

-113

REGIMENTAL COMMANDER
AND STAFF

SECTION LEADER OR
CHIEF OF SECTION

BATTALION COMMANDER

SQUAD LEADER DR

AND STAFF

SERGEANT

ASSISTANT SQUAD LEADER

COMPANY COMMANDER
OR CAPTAIN

_.-

C|3

O

"

OR CORPORAL

YEXECUTIVEOFFICER.
SECOND IN COMMAND

RECONNAISSANCE OFFICER

m

PLATOON COMMANDER
OR LIEUTENANT

L

TRUCK DRIVER

COLORS
CO

FIRST SERGEANT

GUIDON BEARER

PLATOON SERGEANT OR
SERGEANT MAJOR

MESSENGER

PLATOON GUIDE

VEHICLE

Figure29. Key to symbols used in diagrams in
this manual.
114

CHAPTER 8
DRILL FOR FOOT TROOPS

Section I. SQUAD

118. GENERAL. a. A squad is a group of soldiers
organized as a team. It consists of a leader and
other personnel authorized by appropriate Tables
of Organization and Equipment. When the squad
leader is absent, he is replaced by the second in
command. When the second in command is also
absent, the next senior member of the squad acts
as leader, and so on. If the seniority of different
members is not known, men are designated by
name as successive leaders, down to the last two
men in the squad.
Note. For key to symbols used in connection with figures of formation, see figure 29.

b. The squad is always kept intact, so far as
practicable. The normal formation is a single
rank or single file as shown in figure 30. This
permits variation in the number of men composing the squad. The original formation is always
in line. Column formation, when used, is taken
from line formation.
c. The squad marches in line for minor changes
of position only.
115

12

12

Ii

1I

10

tO

9

9

8

7

6

5

O

RIFLE SQUADIN LINE

a

7

()

6

5

4

4

3

3

2

2L

RIFLE SQUAD IN COLUMN

Figure 30. Squad formations.

119. TO FORM THE SQUAD. a. The command is:

FALL IN. At the command FALL IN, the squad
forms in line on the squad leader as shown in
figure 31. On falling in each man, except the one
on the left, extends his left arm laterally at shoulder height, palm of the hand down, fingers extended and joined. Each man, except the one on

Figure 31. FALL IN.

116

the right, turns his head and eyes to the right
and places himself in line so that his right shoulder touches lightly the tips of the fingers of the
man on his right. As soon as proper intervals
have been obtained, each man drops his arm
smartly to his side without command and turns
his head smartly to the front.
b. To form at close interval, the commands
are: 1. AT CLOSE INTERVAL, 2. FALL IN. At the
command FALL IN, the men fall in as in a above,
.except that close intervals are obtained by placing
the left hands on the hips as shown in figure 32.

Figure32. 1. AT CLOSE INTERVAL, 2. FALL IN.

In this position the heel of the palm of the hand
rests on the hip, the fingers and thumb are extended and joined, and the elbow is in the plane
of the body.
c. If the squad is formed under arms, pieces
are at once inspected.
117

120. PREVIOUS

INSTRUCTIONS

APPLICABLE.

The

squad executes the positions, movements, and
manual of arms as prescribed in chapters 6 and 7,
all men executing the movements simultaneously.
121. TO DISMISS THE SQUAD. The commands are:
1. INSPECTION, 2. ARMS, 3. PORT, 4. ARMS, 5.

DISMISSED. If the squad is not under arms, the
single command DISMISSED is used.
122. TO COUNT OFF. a. The command is: 1.
At the command OFF, each man
of the squad, except the one on the right flank,
turns his head and eyes to the right. The right
flank man calls out, "One," vigorously, but without exaggeration. Each man in succession calls
out in the same manner, "Two," "Three," etc.,
turning his head and eyes smartly to the front as
he calls his number.
b. This command may be given whenever desirable to insure that the men know their relative
positions in the squad.
COUNT, 2. OFF.

123. TO ALINE SQUAD. a. If in line, the com-

mands are: 1. DRESS RIGHT (LEFT) or 1. AT CLOSE
(LEFT),

INTERVAL, DRESS RIGHT

2. DRESS, 3.

READY, 4. FRONT. At the command DRESS,
each man except the one on the left extends his
left arm (or if at close interval, his left hand
upon his hip), and all aline themselves to the
right. The instructor places himself on the right
flank one pace from and in prolongation of the

118

line and facing down the line. From this position
he verifies the alinement of the. men, ordering
individuals to move forward or back as necessary.
Having checked the alinement, he faces to the
right in marching and moves 3 paces forward,
halts, faces to the left and commands: 1. READY,
2. FRONT. At the command FRONT, arms are
dropped quietly and smartly to the side, and at
the same time heads turned smartly to the front.
b. If in column, the command is: COVER. At
the command COVER, men cover from front to
rear with 40 inches distance between men.
124. BEING IN LINE AT NORMAL INTERVAL, TO
OBTAIN CLOSE INTERVAL. The commands are:

1. CLOSE, 2. MARCH. At the command MARCH,
all men except the right flank man face to the
right in marching and form at close interval as
prescribed in paragraph 119b.
125. BEING IN LINE AT CLOSE INTERVAL TO EXTEND
TO NORMAL INTERVAL. The commands are: 1. EX-

TEND, 2. MARCH. At the command MARCH, all
men except the right flank man face to the left
in marching and form at normal interval as prescribed in paragraph 119a.
126. BEING IN LINE TO MARCH TO THE FLANK. The

commands are: 1. RIGHT (LEFT), 2. FACE, 3.
FORWARD, 4. MARCH. The movements are executed as explained in paragraphs 60a and 63, all
men stepping off simultaneously.
119

127. TO MARCH TO THE OBLIQUE. a. For the instruction of trainees, the squad being correctly
alined, the instructor causes each man to face
half right (left), points out his position, and
explains that it is to be maintained in the oblique
march. (See fig. 33.)
b. The squad being in any formation, the commands are: 1. RIGHT (LEFT) OBLIQUE, 2. MARCH.
At the command MARCH, given as the right foot
strikes the ground, each individual advances and
plants the left foot, faces to the half right in
marching, and steps off in a direction of 450 to
the right of his original front. He preserves his
relative position, keeping his shoulders parallel to
those of the guide, and so regulates his step that
the ranks remain parallel to their original front.
c. To resume the original direction, the commands are: 1. FORWARD, 2. MARCH. At the com-

Figure 33. Right oblique.

120

mand MARCH, each individual faces to the half
left in marching and then moves straight to the
front.
d. The command HALT is given on the left foot
when halting from right oblique and on the right
foot when halting from left oblique. At the command HALT, given as the left (right) foot strikes
the ground, each individual advances and plants
the right (left) foot, turns to the front on the
ball of the right (left) foot, and places the left
(right) foot by the side of the right (left) foot.
e. To stop temporarily the execution of the
movement for the correction of errors, the commands are: 1. IN PLACE, 2. HALT. All halt in
place without facing to the front and stand fast.
To resume the movement, the commands are:
1. RESUME, 2. MARCH.
f. If at half step or mark time while obliquing,
the full step is resumed by the command: 1. RESUME, 2. MARCH.

g. The word "oblique" is pronounced to rhyme
with "strike."
128. TO MARCH TOWARD THE FLANK WHILE IN
MARCH. a. The commands are: 1. BY THE RIGHT
(LEFT) FLANK, 2. MARCH. At the command
MARCH, each individual executes the movement
as prescribed in paragraph 72;
b. This movement is used when a quick movement to the right or left for a short distance is
required. Normally the unit is halted, faced in the
desired direction, and started forward again by
the commands: 1. FORWARD, 2. MARCH.

121

129. BEING IN COLUMN, TO CHANGE DIRECTION.
The commands are: 1. COLUMN RIGHT (LEFT)
(HALF RIGHT) (HALF LEFT), 2. MARCH. At the

command MARCH, the leading man executes the
movement as prescribed in paragraph 70. The
other men in the column execute the same movement successively and on the same ground as the
leading man.
130. BEING IN LINE, TO TAKE INTERVAL AND AS-

SEMBLE. a. To take interval, the commands are.: 1.
TAKE INTERVAL TO THE LEFT (RIGHT), 2. MARCH.
At the command MARCH, the right flank man
stands fast and extends his left arm at shoulder
height, palm of the hand down, fingers extended
and joined, until the man on his left obtains the
proper interval; he then drops his arm. Other men
face to the left in marching and advance until
they have an interval of two arms' length from
the man on their right. Each man, except the one
on the left, who raises his right arm only, extends
both arms laterally at shoulder height. All, except
the right flank man, then turn their heads and
eyes to the right and place themselves in line so
that the fingertips of each man's right hand touch
lightly the fingertips of the left hand of the man
on his right. As soon as each man alines himself
at two arms' length interval from the man on his
right, he drops his right arm to the side and turns
his head and eyes to the front. He drops his left
arm to the side when the man on his left has
obtained his proper interval. If under arms, rifles
are slung prior to the execution of this movement.
b. To assemble, the commands are: 1. ASSEM122

BLE TO THE RIGHT (LEFT), 2. MARCH. At the com-

mand MARCH, the right flank man stands fast.
All other men face to the right in marching and
form at normal intervals as described in paragraph 119a.
131. TO STACK ARMS. The rifle squad being in line
at normal or close interval, the commands are:
1. STACK, 2. ARMS. Numbers 2, 6, and 9 make
the stacks except when there is no one on their
left. For squads of more than 12 men, additional
stackmen are designated.
a. At the command ARMS, the man on the left
of the stackman regrasps his rifle (the left rifle of
the stack) at the balance with his right hand;
raises it, barrel up, to the horizontal; and passes
it to the stackman, who grasps it with his left
hand between the upper sling swivel and the
stacking swivel.
b. The stackman places the butt of the left rifle
between his feet, the barrel to the front, the muzzle inclined slightly to the front, his thumb and
forefinger raising the stacking swivel. He then
throws the butt of his own rifle (the center rifle),
with.the barrel to the rear, 2 feet in advance of
the butt of the left rifle and 6 inches to the right
of his right toe. At the same time his right hand
shifts to the stacking swivel and engages it with
that of the left rifle.
c. The man on the right, of the stackman regrasps his rifle (the right rifle of the stack), his
right hand at the small of the stock, his left hand
between the upper sling swivel and the stacking
swivel. Keeping his right foot in place, he steps to
674344°-46-9
123

the left front and carries his rifle well forward,
barrel up. (See fig. 340.) With the forefinger of
his left hand guiding the stacking swivel, he engages it with the free hook of the center rifle's
stacking swivel. Rotating the rifle outward so
that the barrel rests in the angle formed by the
other two rifles (fig. 340), he lowers the butt to
the ground so that it forms a uniform stack with
them. He then resumes the position of attention.

Figure 340.. Stack arms: man on the right engages stacking swivel of his rifle with that of the center rifle.

d. Other rifles and any carbines or automatic
rifles of the squad, held approximately vertically,
are passed toward the nearest stack on the right
and laid on the stack by the stackman, barrel
toward the stack. Care is exercised <that pieces
laid on the stack are at a sufficient angle from
the vertical to insure their remaining in place.
(See fig. 340.)
124

Figure 34®. Stack arms: barrel of the right rifle rests in
the angle formed by the other two rifles.

Figure 34®. Stack arms: the completed stacks.
125

132. TO TAKE ARMS. The squad being in line be-

hind the stacks, the commands are: 1. TAKE,
2. ARMS. At the command ARMS, the procedure
of stacking arms is 'reversed. The loose weapons
are first passed back. In breaking the stack, the
stackman grasps his rifle and that of the man on
his left, so that the rifles will not fall when the
man on the right raises and disengages his rifle.
Each man, as he receives his arm, resumes the
position of order (sling) arms.
133. TO FORM COLUMN OF TWOS FROM SINGLE

FILE. The squad being in column at a halt, to form
column of twos the commands are: 1. COLUMN OF
TWOS TO THE LEFT (RIGHT), 2. MARCH. At the

command MARCH, the leading man stands fast;
the second man in the squad moves by the oblique
until he is to the left of and abreast of the squad
leader or leading man with normal interval, and
halts; the third man moves forward until behind
the squad leader or leading man with normal distance, and halts; the fourth man moves by the
oblique until he is to the left of and abreast of the
third man with normal interval, and halts; and
so on.
134. TO FORM

SINGLE FILE FROM COLUMN OF

TWOS. The squad being in column of twos at a halt,
to form single file, the commands are: 1. COLUMN
OF FILES FROM THE RIGHT (LEFT), 2. MARCH. At

the command MARCH, the leading man of the
right column moves forward, the leading man of
126

the left column steps off to the right oblique, then
executes left oblique so as to follow the right file at
normal distance. Remaining twos follow successively in like manner.
135. COLUMN OF TWOS. A small group, not at
drill, may be marched in column of twos by forming it in two ranks and giving the command:
1. RIGHT (LEFT), 2. FACE.

Section II. PLATOON
136. COMPOSITION AND FORMATION OF THE PLA-

TOON. a. A platoon consists of a platoon headquarters and two or more sections or squads. Platoon headquarters consists of a platoon commander and one or more assistants.
Note. A section not subdivided into squads is formed
and executes movements in the same manner as a squad.
(See sec. I of this ch.)

b. The platoon forms in two or more ranks with
40 inches distance between ranks.
c. The platoon in line is alined as prescribed
for the squad in paragraph 123. The alinement of
each rank is verified by the platoon leader.
d. The platoon in line closes and extends as prescribed for the squad in paragraphs 124 and 125.
e. The platoon in line takes interval and assembles as prescribed for the squad in paragraph 130.
This movement may be ordered, after ranks are
opened, for the display of field equipment or for
other special purposes.
127

f. The platoon may be formed for physical
training as follows: (See also FM 21-20.)
(1) 1. EXTEND TO THE LEFT, 2. MARCH. At this
command the men in the right file stand fast, with
arms extended sideward; all other men turn' to
the left and run forward to the original left. All
face to the front with arms extended sideward
after taking the required distance. The distance
between fingertips is about 12 inches.
(2) 1. ARMS DOWNWARD, 2. MOVE. At this com-

mand the arms are lowered smartly to the side.
(3) 1. FROM FRONT TO REAR, 2. COUNT OFF.

At this command the leading man in each file
turns his head to the right rear, calls off "one" and
faces to the front. Other men in each file call off
in turn, "two," "three," "four," etc., in the same
manner.
(4)

1.

EVEN NUMBERS, TO THE LEFT, 2.

UN-

COVER. At the command UNCOVER, each evennumbered man side-jumps to the left, squarely in
the middle of the interval. In doing this, he swings
his left leg sideward and jumps from his right
foot and lights on his left foot, smartly bringing
the right into position against the left.
(5) To assemble the unit, the leader commands:
1. ASSEMBLE TO THE RIGHT, 2.

MARCH. At the

command, MARCH, all return to their original
position in column on the double.
137. FORMATION OF THE SECTION. A section nor- '

mally forms and drills as part of a platoon. As
used herein, the term section is synonymous with
squad or platoon depending upon its size.
128

6 PES

Inlm
I
,:

o

o

o

EDEl El

--

E-1 M

o

o

o

-- E

o

o
E
-l

o

Ixl ~B
1 CD

PLATOON
HEADQUVARTERS
INTERVALS-ARMS LENGTH

DISTANCE-40 INCHES

Figure 35.' Rifle platoon in line.

138. POSITIONS OF INDIVIDUALS.

a. The platoon

leader takes position 6 paces in front of the center
of his platoon when in line. (See fig. 35.) In
march formation, he marches at the head of his
platoon as shown in figure 36.
b. The platoon sergeant takes position to the
left of the left man of the rear rank when the
platoon is in line unless otherwise indicated. In
march formation, he follows the rear man in the
right squad of the unit. He observes the conduct
of the unit and sees that the proper formation is
maintained and that commands are promptly and
properly executed.
c. The platoon guide (a sergeant or other specially designated noncommissioned officer) is
posted to the right of the right flank man of the
front rank when in line. In column, he takes post
in front of the right flank man. He is responsible
for maintaining the proper direction and cadence
of march of the platoon. (See par. 41.)
129

d. Other noncommissioned officers (such as
mess and supply sergeants, clerks, and techniacians) and privates (such as cooks' helpers and
basics), whose positions are not otherwise prescribed, may be attached to platoons to equalize
the strength thereof without interfering with the
permanent squad organization. They fall in on
the left when in line or in rear when platoons are
in column. (See par. 154b.)
139. TO FORM THE PLATOON. a. The command is:

FALL IN. At the command FALL IN, the platoon guide takes his position so that the leading
rank will fall in with its center opposite and three
paces from the platoon sergeant. The other ranks
form in rear of the leading squad or section with
40 inches distance between ranks. Members of
the rear ranks extend their arms to obtain their
approximate intervals, but cover the corresponding members of the leading rank.
b.. To form at close interval, the commands are:
1. AT CLOSE INTERVAL, 2. FALL IN. At the com-

mand FALL IN, the movement is executed as prescribed in a above, except that squads form at
close interval. (See par. 119b.)
c. The platoon is ordinarily formed and dismissed by the platoon sergeant. (See par. 156.)
140. TO DISMISS THE PLATOON. The commands
are: 1. INSPECTION, 2. ARMS, 3. PORT, 4. ARMS,

5. DISMISSED. If not under arms, the single
command DISMISSED is employed.
130

El ElEl2
D

CE
E
II

Q.

E9

El
E1
I I--]

El 1-I
lml

I- IE-1 IE

ElMIIIE]

EI I- IF-I
El

El

El

E-E-1 E-1

EI

E

F]

F-l

El1

E

EDElEll
El

El

E

E

E1 FiEl

[E

E-1

0 CLOSE4 INCHES
INTERVAL:

NORMAL INTERVAL:
ARMS LENGTH

DISTANCE: 40 INCHES

Figure 36. Rifle platoon in column.

131

141. PLATOON FORMATIONS FOR MARCHING.

a.

The normal formation for marching is in column
of two or more files, files abreast, squad leaders
at the heads of their squads. (See fig. 36.)
b. The platoon marches in line only for minor
changes of position.
c. The platoon being in line to march to the
right (left), the commands are: 1. RIGHT, (LEFT),
2. FACE, 3. FORWARD, 4. MARCH. This marches
the platoon in column of two or more files to the
right (left).
142. GUIDE IN MARCHING. Exceptwhenotherwise
directed, men in ranks maintain the proper distance and interval and aline themselves on the.
men toward the flank on which the guide is marching. When it is desired to guide toward the left,
the command is GUIDE LEFT. The guide and the
platoon leader then change their relative positions.
143. SUPPLEMENTARY
COMMANDS.
Whenever
commands are given involving movements in
which all squads in the platoon do not execute the
same movement simultaneously, the squad leaders
give the appropriate supplementary commands
for the movement of their squads.
144. BEING IN COLUMN AT NORMAL INTERVAL, TO
MARCH (FORM) AT CLOSE INTERVAL. (See fig. 360.)
The commands are: 1. CLOSE. 2. MARCH.
a. Being in march in column at the command
MARCH, the squad(s) away from the guide
obliques toward the guide until the interval be132

CLOSE--MARCH
THREE FILES

rA
I

TWO FILES

CseI I7

Figure S7.

ils
I

Close-march: three files, two files.

'tween men is 4 inches, and takes up the half step
when abreast of the base squad. The base squad
takes up the half step until the.dress has been
regained.
b. Being at a halt in column, the squads close
by executing right (left) step. (See fig. 37.)
145. BEING IN COLUMN AT CLOSE INTERVAL, TO
MARCH (FORM) AT NORMAL INTERVAL. The commands are: 1. EXTEND, 2. MARCH.
a. Being in march in column, at the command
MARCH, the squad(s) away from the guide
obliques away from the guide until the interval
133

between files is one arms length, and takes up the
half step when abreast of the base squad. The
base squad takes up the half step until the dress
has been regained.
b. Being at a halt in column, squads extend by
executing right (left) step.

146. BEING IN COLUMN, TO CHANGE DIRECTION.

The commands are: 1. COLUMN RIGHT (LEFT), 2.
MARCH. The right flank man of the leading rank
(the guide and platoon leader excepted) is the
pivot' of this movement. At the command
MARCH, the right flank man of the leading rank
faces to the right in marching as prescribed in
paragraph 70, and takes up the half step until
the other men of his rank are abreast of him; he
then resumes the full step. The other men of the
leading rank oblique to the right in marching
without changing interval, place themselves
abreast of the pivot man, and conform to his step.
The ranks in rear of the leading rank execute the
movement on the same ground and in the same
manner as the leading rank. (See fig. 38.)

147. BEING IN COLUMN, TO FORM LINE TO FRONT.

The commands are: 1. COLUMN RIGHT, 2. MARCH,
3. PLATOON, 4. HALT, 5. LEFT, 6, FACE. Column
right is executed as prescribed in paragraph 146.
The command HALT is given after the change of
direction is completed.
134

COLUMN RIGHT

MARCH

135

1

Figure 88. Coluv7ln right, march.

135

148. BEING IN ANY FORMATION IN MARCH, TO
MARCH TOWARD THE FLANK. The commands are:
1. BY THE RIGHT (LEFT)

FLANK, 2. MARCH.

At

the command MARCH, given as the right foot
strikes the ground, each individual executes the
movement as prescribed in paragraph 72. If the
platoon is in column at close (4-inch) intervals,
the squads in rear of the squad which becomes
the leading squad take up the half step until they
each reach 40 inches distance from the squad
ahead. This movement is used for short distances
only.

149. TO STACK ARMS. Before stacking arms, ranks
are opened. Arms are then stacked by each squad
as prescribed in paragraph 131.

150. BEING IN LINE, TO OPEN RANKS. The commands.are: 1. OPEN RANKS, 2. MARCH,'3. READY,
4. FRONT. At the command MARCH, the front
rank takes two paces forward, halts, and executes
dress right. The second rank takes one pace forward, halts, and executes dress right. The third
rank, if present, stands fast and executes dress
right. Each succeeding rank present takes two
(four, six) steps backward, halts and executes
dress right. The platoon leader, moving by the
most direct route, places himself on the flank of
the platoon toward which the dress is made, one
pace from and in prolongation of the front rank
and facing down the line. From this position he
136

alines the front rank. He then faces to the left in
marching, halts on the prolongation of each succeeding rank, executes right face, and alines that
rank. After verifying the alinement of the rear
rank, he faces to the right in marching, moves
three paces beyond the front rank, halts, faces
to the left and commands: 1. READY, 2. FRONT.
151. BEING AT OPEN RANKS, TO CLOSE RANKS. The

commands are: 1. CLOSE RANKS, 2. MARCH. At
the command MARCH, the front rank stands
fast; the second rank takes one pace forward and
halts. Each succeeding rank present, takes two,
(three, four, five) paces forward respectively,
and halts. Each man covers his file leader.

152. TO FORM FOR SHELTER TENTS. a. Sheltertents

will be pitched in line and in formation only for
purposes of instruction and for formal field inspections of equipment. Normally, in bivouac,
full use will be made of available cover, and
straight lines will be avoided.
b. The platoon is formed for pitching shelter
tents in one line. If sufficient space is not available, squad lines may be used.
c. If men are armed with rifles, rifles will be
slung prior to forming for shelter-tents.
d. The platoon being in line, to form in one
rank for pitching shelter tents, the commands
are: 1. FORM FOR SHELTER TENTS TO THE LEFT

(RIGHT), 2. MARCH, 3. TAKE INTERVAL TO THE
LEFT (RIGHT), 4. MARCH, 5. COUNT OFF.

137

(1) At the command FORM FOR SHELTER TENTS
the second in command moves to a
position on the right of the 'guide who is on the
right of the right man of the' front rank. The
messengers take position on' the left of the left
man of the rear rank.
(2) At the command 2. MARCH, all squads
except the squad in the first rank face to the left
in marching and step off. Squad leaders move
their squads into line abreast of the squad (s) already on line by giving the appropriate commands: 1. BY THE RIGHT.FLANK, 2. MARCH, and
1. SQUAD, 2. HALT.
(3) At the commands 3. TAKE-INTERVAL TO THE
LEFT,.:(RIGHT) 4. MARCH, 5. COUNT OFF, given
by the platoon leader, the entire rank executes
these movements as prescribed in paragraphs
130a and 122.
e. On direction of the platoon leader, the odd
numbers draw their bayonets and thrust them
into the ground alongside the outside -of the left
heel near the instep. The bayonet indicates the position of the front tent pole. Men not equipped with
bayonets mark the place with the left heel. Odd
and even numbers (Nos. 1 and 2; Nos. 3 and 4;
etc.) pitch tents together.
f. To assemble, the commands are: 1. ASSEMBLE
TO THE RIGHT, 2. MARCH, 3. RIGHT, 4. FACE, 5.
TO THE LEFT,

COLUMN OF TWOS (THREES, FOURS) TO THE RIGHT,

6. MARCH. (See pars. 130b and 153). The
platoon sergeant and messengers resume their
normal posts.
g. For method of pitching shelter tents and display of equipment, see FM 21-15. (See fig. 39.)
138

Figure 39. Display of equipment.
153. TO

FORM COLUMN OF TWOS AND SINGLE

FILE AND RE-FORM. The platoon may be marched

in column of twos or single file by the procedure
given below. This is not a precise movement. It
is practised in drill so that, when necessary, the
movement may be executed smoothly and without
delay. The change of column is always made from
a halt.
674344°-46-10
139

a. Being in column of threes, to form column
of twos, the commands are: 1. COLUMN OF TWOS
FROM THE RIGHT (LEFT), 2. MARCH. At the command MARCH, the right two squads march forward; the left squad forms column of twos to the
left as prescribed for the squad in paragraph 133,
and then executes column half right and column
half left so as to follow in column the leading
squads. Normal distances are maintained. (See
fig. 400.)
b. Being in column of twos, to re-form in column of threes, the commands are: 1. COLUMN OF
THREES TO THE LEFT (RIGHT), 2. MARCH. At
the command MARCH, the leading two squads
stand fast. The rear squad forms single file from
the right, as indicated in figure 40®,moving into
its normal place beside the leading squads by executing column half left, then column half right.
It is halted when its leading file is on line with
the leading rank of the platoon.
c. The following movements are executed in a
manner similar to those explained in a and b
above:
(1) Being in column of four or more files, to
form column of twos, the commands are: 1. COL2.
(LEFT),
UMN OF TWOS FROM THE RIGHT
MARCH:
(2) Being in column of twos, to re-form in
column of four or more files, the commands are: 1.
COLUMN OF FOURS (FIVES)

(SIXES) TO THE LEFT

2. MARCH.
(3) Being in column of two or more files, to
form single file, the commands are: 1. COLUMN OF
(RIGHT),

FILES FROM THE RIGHT (LEFT), 2. MARCH.

140

I

I
(

a---------------------;\

------:- ---

-

--- b

COLUMN OF TWOS FROM COLUMN OF THREES

3

®

-----

. /----- ..---------..,.7X

RE-FORM COLUMN OF THREES

Figure 40. Column of twos from column of threes
and re-form.

(4) Being in single file, to re-form in column
of two or more files, the commands are: 1. COLUMN OF TWOS (THREES)
(RIGHT), 2. MARCH.

(FOURS)

TO THE LEFT

(5) Being in column of sixes, to form column
of twos, the commands are: 1. COLUMN OF TWOS
FROM THE RIGHT (LEFT), 2. MARCH.
(6) Being in column of twos, to re-form in column of sixes the commands are: 1. COLUMN OF
SIXES TO THE LEFT (RIGHT),

2. MARCH.

(7) Being in column of twos to form single file,
the commands are: 1. COLUMN OF FILES FROM THE
RIGHT (LEFT), 2. MARCH.
(8) Being in single file to re-form in column of

twos the commands are: 1. COLUMN OF TWOS TO
THE LEFT (RIGHT), 2. MARCH.
141

Section III. COMPANY

154. GENERAL. a. A company consists of a company headquarters and two or more platoons.
b. For dismounted drill and ceremonies, company headquarters personnel present are attached
to platoons to equalize the strength thereof, but
without interfering with the permanent squad
organization. For marches or special purposes,
members of the company headquarters command
group are formed as shown in figure 41® or as
directed by the company commander or higher'
authority.
c. (1) Posts of officers, key noncommissioned
officers, and the guidon bearer at the various company formations for drills and ceremonies are as
shown in figures 41, 42, 43, and 44.
(2) In all cases, distances are normal except
for the guidon bearer with the company in line,
or in mass formation when he is one pace to the,
rear and three paces to the left of the company.
commander.
(3) For marches in the field, the guidon is disposed with company headquarters baggage or as
otherwise directed. If carried by the guidon bearer, the latter takes the position shown in figure
41®.
155. RULES FOR COMPANY DRILL. a. The platoon,
rather than the company, is the basic drill unit.
Only such formations are prescribed for the company as are necessary for marches, drills, and
ceremonies. The company forms in line, in col142

umn, in mass'or extended mass formation, and
in column of platoons in line as shown in figures
41, 42, 43, and 44.
b. In company drill, if all men in the unit are
to execute the same movement simultaneously,
the platoon leaders repeat the preparatory commands of the company commander for the facings
and marchings, except that when the preparatory
command of the company commander is COMPANY
the platoon leaders give the preparatory command
PLATOON. When platoons of the company are to
execute a movement in successive order, such as
a column movement, the platoon leader of the first
platoon to execute the movement repeats the company commander's preparatory command, and
those of following platoons give an appropriate
caution such as CONTINUE THE MARCH. Platoon
leaders of following platoons repeat the company
commander's preparatory command and command of execution at the proper time to cause
their platoons to execute the movement on the
same ground as the first'platoon. In giving commands or cautions, platoon leaders may prefix
the number of the platoon, as 1. FIRST PLATOON, 2.

HALT, or SECOND PLATOON, FORWARD. The foregoing applies, when necessary, to movements executed in route step or at ease. Platoon leaders
do not repeat the company commander's commands for the company to fall out, stack arms,
take arms, or execute the manual of arms, nor
commands which do not require coordinated execution.
c. Whenever commands are given involving
movements of the company in which one platoon
143

z

0
0

1111

$·

HU

ai

J

1z

o_z
0

Lo

-

U

La

-

z

z
0
40I

0

z
0
0

Ufli

I-

~~z0

*4*O

144
144

I-

z

E3

z
og
1

w -4

i®

0

it

~

~

,

4z
z

>-t

0~~6
0

~

I-

0
a.[

145

~

F

stands fast or continues the march, while one or
more of the others do not, its commander commands: STAND FAST or CONTINUE THE MARCH, as
the case may be.
d. The company does not execute marchings in
line except for minor changes in position.
156. TO FORM THE COMPANY. a. The first sergeant takes post nine paces in front of the point
where the center of the company is to be, faces
that point, and commands: FALL IN. At the command FALL IN, the company forms in two or
more ranks with normal interval between men
(unless close interval is directed) and three-pace
intervals between platoons as indicated in figure
410.
b. Each platoon sergeant takes post three paces
in front of the point where the center of his platoon will be. The platoons then form as prescribed
in paragraph 139, under the supervision of the
platoon sergeants.
c. The platoon sergeants then command: REPORT. Remaining in position (at order arms if
armed with the rifle), the squad leaders, in succession from front to rear in each platoon, salute
and report, "All present,"' or "Private -.....
absent." Platoon sergeants then command: 1. INSPECTION, 2. ARMS, 3. ORDER, 4. ARMS, and face
about. At the command REPORT given by the
first sergeant, the platoon sergeants, beginning
with the right platoon, successively salute and report, "All present or accounted for" or" ......
men absent."

146

d. All, platoons having reported, the first sergeant commands: POSTS. The platoon sergeants
face about and move by the most direct routes to
the positions shown in figure 410. The first sergeant then faces the company commander, salutes,
and reports, "Sir, all present or accounted for"
or "Sir, ......
men absent," and without command faces about and moves by the most direct
route to the position shown in figure 410. Upon
completion of the first sergeant's report, the company commander draws saber, if so armed.
e. If the platoons cannot be formed in regularly organized squads, the platoon sergeants com-

mand 1. INSPECTION, 2. ARMS, 3. RIGHT SHOULDER,
4. ARMS, and call the rolls. Each man as his
name is called answers,-"Here," and comes to order arms. The platoon set rgeants then divide the
platoons into squads and report as described
above.
f. The company commander places himself 12
paces in front of the center of and facing the company in time to receive the report of the first sergeant. The second in command and officers commanding platoons take their posts immediately
after the first sergeant has reported and, when
armed with the saber, draw saber with the company commander; when armed with the carbine,
they stand at attention with the piece in the carrying position. (See par. 113a.)
g. In forming the company, all who are. required to salute and make a report, report in the
position of salute and hold the salute until it is
returned.. The officer receiving the report does
not return the salute until the report is completed.
147

157. BEING IN LINE TO MARCH TO THE RIGHT (LEFT).

The company is faced to the right (left) and
marched as prescribed for the platoon in paragraph 141c. The company commander, first sergeant, and guidon take positions as shown in
figure 41®. The second in command of the company will normally take post in rear of the left
squad of the rear platoon at 40 inches distance.
158. TO FORM WITH CLOSE INTERVAL BETWEEN
MEN. The commands are: 1. AT CLOSE INTERVAL,

2. FALL IN. At the command FALL IN, the
company forms as prescribed in paragraph 156
with each platoon forming as prescribed in paragraph 139b. This formation is used only for roll
calls or where space is limited.
159. TO DISMISS THE COMPANY. a. The commands
are: 1. FIRST SERGEANT, 2. DISMISS THE COM-

PANY. The company being in line at a halt, at
the command 1. FIRST SERGEANT, the first sergeant
moves by the most direct route to a point 3 paces
from the company commander (9 paces in front
of the center of the company), halts, and salutes.
The company commander acknowledges the salute
and commands: 2. DISMISS THE COMPANY.
The first sergeant salutes; the company commander acknowledges the salute, returns saber, if so
armed, and falls out; the other officers of the company return saber, if so armed, and fall out at
the same time. The platoon sergeants take their
posts three paces in front of the centers of their
148

platoons. The first sergeant, when his salute is
returned, executes about face and commands: 1.
INSPECTION, 2. ARMS, 3. PORT, 4. ARMS, 5. DISMISSED.
b. The platoons being in line at a halt, dismissal
may also be ordered by the command DISMISS
YOUR PLATOONS. The platoon leaders salute;
the company commander acknowledges the salute
and falls out. The platoon commanders execute
about face and order the dismissal of the platoons
with the commands: 1. PLATOON SERGEANT, 2. DISMISS THE PLATOON. This is executed as prescribed for 1. FIRST SERGEANT, 2. DISMISS THE
COMPANY in a above, the platoon sergeant taking post three paces in front of the center of his
platoon.
c. The first sergeant may cause platoons to be
dismissed by the platoon sergeants by giving them
the command DISMISS YOUR PLATOONS. The
platoon sergeants salute; the first sergeant ac.knowledges the salute and falls out. The platoon
sergeants then execute about face and dismiss
their platoons as prescribed in paragraph 140.
160. TO ALINE THE COMPANY. a.

The company

being in line at a halt, to aline the company, the
command of the company commander is: DRESS
RIGHT (CENTER, LEFT). At the command
DRESS RIGHT, the platoon leader of the base
platoon dresses his platoon immediately by the
commands: 1. DRESS RIGHT, 2. DRESS, 3. READY,
4. FRONT. When DRESS CENTER is given, the
leader of the center platoon dresses his platoon to
the right in the same manner. Each platoon
149

leader dresses his platoon toward the center
(right or left) of the company as soon as the base
platoon or, if not adjacent to the base platoon, the
platoon next toward the base platoon has completed its dress.
b. The company being in mass formation at a
halt, to aline the company, the commands of the
company commander are: 1. DRESS RIGHT (LEFT),
2. DRESS, 3. READY, 4. FRONT. At the command
DRESS, the alinement of each rank is verified
promptly by the platoon leader of the base platoon.
When the platoon leader resumes his post, the
company commander commands: 3. READY, 4.
FRONT.
161. PREVIOUS

INSTRUCTION

APPLICABLE.

The

company marches, executes changes of direction,
closes and extends intervals between squads in
column, opens and closes ranks, stacks and takes
arms as in platoon drill.
162. BEING IN COLUMN AT CLOSE INTERVAL, TO}

FORM COMPANY MASS. a. The company being atl
a halt, the commands are: 1. COMPANY MASS LEFT
(RIGHT), 2. MARCH. At the command MARCH,
the leading platoon stands fast. The rear platoon (s) moves to positions alongside the leading
platoon(s) at 4-inch intervals by executing column half left then column half right. Each
platoon is halted when its leading rank is on line
with the leading rank of the platoon(s) already
on line. This forms the company in mass, with 4inch intervals between all adjacent men in ranks.
(See fig. 42.)
150

.

00El

.6

PACES

0O J

0El

I

II

0EL4

E

IENECEDIlEl

INCES
0

Fiurl2Rilompa yimfEloIrmaton

INTERVAL--4

Figure 42.

DISJTANCE--40

INCHES

INCHES

Rifle company in mass formation.

1 151

0Z

b. The company being in march, the commands
are the same as given in a above. The movement
is executed as described in a above, except that
immediately after the command MARCH the
leading platoon is halted by the commands: 1.
PLATOON, 2. HALT, given by the platoon leader.
163. BEING IN COLUMN, TO FORM EXTENDED MASS
FORMATION. The commands are: 1. COMPANY
MASS ......
PACES LEFT (RIGHT), 2. MARCH.
At the command MARCH, the movement is executed as described in paragraph 162 except that
the rear platoon(s) moves to position alongside
the leading platoon (s) at the intervals ordered, by
executing column left and column right. Each
platoon is halted when its leading rank is on line
with the leading rank of the platoon(s) already
on line. (See fig. 43.) This formation is used
for drills and ceremonies if it is desired to increase the size of the mass in order to present a
more impressive appearance. The company in
this formation drills in the same manner as for
mass formation, maintaining the interval between
platoons.

164. BEING IN MASS FORMATION, TO CHANGE
DIRECTION. a. The commands are: 1. RIGHT
(LEFT) TURN, 2. MARCH, 3. FORWARD, 4. MARCH.

The right flank man of the line of guides and
platoon leaders is the pivot of this movement. At
the command 2. MARCH, he faces to the right in
marching and takes up the half step. Other first
rank men execute a right oblique, advance until
opposite their place in line, execute a second right
152

- t
6 PACES
3 TO 6 PACES

WEAPONS
PLATOON

RIFLE
PLATOON

3 TO 6 PACES

RIFLE
PLATOON

RIFLE
PLATOON

Figure 43. Rifle company in extended mass formation.

oblique, and upon arriving abreast of the pivot
man, take up the half step. Each succeeding rank
executes the movement on the same ground and in
the same manner as the first rank. All take the
full step at the command: 3. FORWARD, 4. MARCH,

which is given after the entire company has
changed direction.
b. In turning to the left on a moving pivot, each
rank guides left until the command: 3. FORWARD,
4. MARCH; after that, the guide is right unless
otherwise announced.
153

6iPACES

6

PACES

0

RIFLE PLATOON

24 PACES

1

'

o

RIFLE PLATOON

0
RIFLE PLATOON

WEAPONS PLATOON

Figure 44. Rifle company in column of platoons in line.

154

c.. The company commander faces the company
and marches backward until the change in direction has been completed.
165. BEING IN COMPANY MASS, TO FORM COLUMN.

a. Being at a halt, the commands are: 1. COLUMN
OF FILES (TWOS, THREES, or more), 2. RIGHT
(LEFT) PLATOON, FORWARD, 3. MARCH. At the

command MARCH, the right platoon marches forward. Each of the remaining platoons follows in
column in its normal formation, executing column
half right and column half left upon the commands of its leader.
b. Being in march, the commands are: 1. COLUMN OF FILES (TWOS, THREES, or more), 2. RIGHT
(LEFT) PLATOON, FORWARD, DOUBLE TIME, 3.

MARCH. At the command MARCH, the right
platoon takes up the double time. Each of the remaining platoons continues in quick time, taking
up the double time at the command of its leader
in time to take its place in the formation.
166. TO FORM COLUMN OF PLATOONS IN LINE.

Being in column of twos (threes, fours), the commands are: 1. COMPANY MASS 24 PACES RIGHT, 2.

MARCH, 3. LEFT, 4. FACE. (See figure 44.) This
formation is used for inspections. (See par. 216.)

674344°-46-11

155

CHAPTER 9
DRILL FOR UNITS WITH VEHICLES

Section I. GENERAL

167. GENERAL. The drill described in this chapter
provides for the orderly formation and movement
of vehicles in ceremonies.
168. TRANSPORTATION. Personnel of motorized
units will ride in their vehicles. In other units,
the minimum personnel necessary to operate the
vehicles and man the equipment transported will
ride. The others march on foot.

169. DISMOUNTED AND MOTORIZED TROOPS PAR-

TICIPATING IN CEREMONY. a. When both dismounted and motorized troops are participating in
a ceremony, it is preferable to have the vehicles
march as a unit separately from the dismounted
troops, to avoid injury to the vehicles resulting
from being driven at an excessively slow rate. Arrangements should be made so that the vehicles
can travel at a minimum rate of 10 miles per hour.
This can be accomplished by moving them by
bounds or by allowing a sufficient gap between
their starting time and that of the dismounted
156

troops, so that the vehicles will arrive at the de-.sired destination at the proper time without having to decrease their driving speed.
b. In formations combining both dismounted
and motorized troops, the vehicles will be arranged as directed by the unit commander.
170. DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS. Motorized troops

fall in at formations for drills and ceremonies, in
the same manner as dismounted troops. When
mounted in vehicles, unless at rest or at ease,
they sit at attention holding their weapons in the
position of order arms, grasping the hand guard
of the rifle just above the lower band, or, if armed
with the carbine, just below the front band. Drivers, assistant drivers and others specifically designated, dispose of their weapons in boots or racks
provided for that purpose or in any other safe and
convenient manner.
171. MANUAL OF ARMS.

When dismounted, all

men execute the manual of arms in the same manner as other dismounted troops. Men in vehicles
do not execute the manual.
a. Men armed with the rifle or carbine assume
positions as prescribed in paragraph 170.
b. Men not armed with the rifle or carbine (except drivers) fold their arms, elbows shoulder
high, right arm uppermost, when passing in review.
. c. Officers in vehicles execute the hand salute.
Jgnlisted men in vehicles unless in charge of a
unit or detachment, do not salute when in formations.
157

'Section II. VEHICLES IN FORMATIONS WITH TROOPS
172. FORMATIONS.

The formations are line(s)

and column (s).
a. Except when in mass the right vehicle is the
base vehicle in line, and the leading vehicle is the
base vehicle in column. In mass, the right front
vehicle is the base vehicle.
b. In line, the front edges of the vehicles are
alined.
c. In column, the right edges of the vehicles are
alined.

5 YARDS HALTED
WHEN MOVING.
AS PRESCRIBED.

PT;
YARDS

Figure 45. Vehicles in mass formation.

158

d. Except when vehicles are massed as a separate unit, the commander rides in the base vehicle.
When vehicles are massed as a separate unit, the
commander's vehicle takes position six paces in
front of the center of the formation. The base
vehicle regulates its speed and movement upon the
vehicle of the commander.
e. The second in command rides in the left vehicle when in line and the rear vehicle when in
column. When vehicles are massed, he rides in
the left rear vehicle.
f. Vehicles are arranged in any convenient
manner. When necessary, the distances and intervals may be changed to meet requirements of
space. Vehicles should be distributed so as to have
columns or lines (if more than one) of approximately the same length. Units of approximately
20 vehicles may be formed as a single unit.

173. VEHICLES MASSED AS A SEPARATE UNIT.

a.

When vehicles are massed as a separate unit (par.
169a), they may be placed with respect to the dismounted troops as prescribed by the unit commander. The distance and interval between the
vehicles and the dismounted troops will be as prescribed by the unit commander. (See fig. 45.) The
normal distance and interval between halted vehicles is 5 yards.
b. Suitable distances and intervals between vehicles are prescribed for moving vehicles. Distances will be not less than 12 yards and intervals
not less than 5 yards.
159

UL ~~I IP
5 YARDS

5 YARDS

()

FOOT ELEMENTS AND TRUCKS IN LINE
S YARDS
MALTED:
MOVINGC:
ASPRESCRIED.

(_

FOOT ELEMENTS AND TRUCKS IN COLUMN

Figure 46. Formation of vehicles accompanying
dismounted troops.

174. VEHICLES ACCOMPANYING DISMOUNTED
TROOPS. Vehicles forming with dismounted troops
form 5 yards in rear of the rear man. The interval between vehicles depends on the frontage
of the unit with which they are forming, but is
never less than 5 yards. (See fig. 46.)

Section III. LOADING AND UNLOADING VEHICLES
175. FORMATION AT VEHICLES. Being in any formation, to form at the vehicles, the commands
are: 1. AT YOUR VEHICLE (S). 2. FALL IN. At the
command FALL IN, men move to their assigned
vehicle (s) and form as shown in figure 47.
160

176. LOAD VEHICLE(S). Being in formation at the

vehicle(s), the command is: LOAD VEHICLE(S). At this command, weapons and
equipment are loaded in the vehicle under the directioi of the leader. When the loading is completed, men who are to ride in the vehicle mount
and take seats at attention.
177. UNLOAD VEHICLE(S).

Men being il the ve-

hicle(s), the command is: UNLOAD VEHICLE(S). At this command the men dismount
and remove any weapons and equipment under
the direction of the leader. The unit re-forms
without command as shown in figure 47.

PACE

1

I PACE

Figure 47. Formations at vehicle.

161

Section IV. MOVEMENTS OF VEHICLES
178. GENERAL. a. Formations while moving. Since

the vehicles of a unit normally form in line or in
column, the rules for drill are the same regardless
of their number. Complicated maneuvers are not
executed.
b. Instructions prior to ceremonies.

Formations

and movements should be explained prior to ceremonies. Although it may be necessary to drill
with vehicles to accomplish orderly formations
and movements at ceremonies, this drill should be
limited to the minimum amount necessary for instruction.
c. Essential movements.

Essential movements

are(1) Movement forward in line and column.
(2) Movement from column to line and from
line to column, including changes in direction.
(3) Movement into a mass formation from a
single column.
(4) Movement in mass formation, including
changes in direction.
(5) Forming single column from mass formation while moving and from a halt.
d. Signals. Signals are usually given by armand-hand movements. (Ch. 13.) Voice commands
may be used at halts when the engines of the vehicles are not running. During movement, the
commander makes certain that subordinate commanders and leaders receive signals and commands, and transmit them promptly. All vehicle'
operating personnel must be thoroughly trained in
the use of standard signals, and impressed with
162

the necessity for their prompt transmission. For
drivers' signals, see TM 21-305.
179. TO START ENGINES.

Vehicles are started at

the command or signal START ENGINES. They
are kept running until the command or signal
STOP ENGINES is given. When vehicles are
halted during ceremonies, engines are kept running unless the halt is to be prolonged.
180. BEING AT A HALT, TO MOVE FORWARD. The

warning signal FORWARD is given by the commander and his vehicle moves out. Other vehicles
move forward at the prescribed distance (interval), following (alining themselves upon) the
base vehicle.
181. BEING IN MOVEMENT, TO HALT.

The com-

mander causes his driver to signal HALT. His
vehicle then slows down and halts. Other vehicles
close to the prescribed distance (interval) and
halt.
182. TO FORM COLUMN OR LINE. a. General. The

vehicles being in any formation(s), except line
or column, the commander places his own vehicle
at the base position, signals ASSEMBLE, and
then extends his arm horizontally, pointing in the
direction of the line or column on which the vehicles are to form. Vehicles then move to position
in column (s) or line (s) at the prescribed distance
or interval.
b. Being in line, to form column. The commander

signals COLUMN, causes his driver to give the
163

-

'
L

L '

,

i

(

j'

''

r',

_

-

-

_
I

TO
LINE,
FORM
..

To THE RIGHnTCLUTHERT

BEI IN LINE

m-

r---4 a

-¢

I

EING IN
COI.UMN

-I

?'s

TO FORM

...

rs:

.oI

LINE

BEING
COLUMN
IN
TOT

TOFORM
HE FRONT

FFigure 48. Movements of vehicles in line or column;
changing direction of march.

164

appropriate signal indicating whether the movement is to be made to the right, left, or front, and
has his vehicle move in the desired direction. The
remaining vehicles, in succession from the right
(left) turn and follow at the prescribed distance.
(See figs. 480 and ®.)
c. Being in column, to form line. The commander
signals LINE, causes his driver to give the appropriate signal indicating whether the movement is
to be made to the right, left, or front, and has his
vehicle move in the desired direction. Other
vehicles form in line on the commander's vehicle.
(See figs. 480 and 0.)
183. TO FORM IN COLUMN OF TWO OR MORE FILES
AND MASS FORMATION. Prior to forming, the commander informs the unit of the place and nature
of the formation, the number of vehicles that will
form abreast, and the order of the vehicles in the
formation. He places his own vehicle in position
six paces in front of the center of the formation.
The base vehicle and other vehicles form successively as shown in figure 45.
184. BEING IN COLUMN OF TWO OR MORE FILES,
TO CHANGE DIRECTION. If at a halt, the commander signals FORWARD, indicating the direction of march. If moving, the change in direction
is indicated by the driver's signal RIGHT
(LEFT) TURN. The commander causes his vehicle to move in the desired direction. The remaining vehicles conform. The speed of the vehicles on the outside of the turn is increased as
necessary. (See fig. 49.)
165

185. BEING IN COLUMN OF TWO OR MORE FILES,
TO FORM SINGLE COLUMN. a. The commander

signals or commands COLUMN, and points to the
column leader who is to lead off. He then moves
his own vehicle in the desired direction. The leading vehicle of the designated column follows that
of the commander at the prescribed distance, followed by the remaining vehicles of that column.
The remaining columns follow in succession. (See
fig. 50.)
,_'

r0n

n

rni

Figure 49. Movements of vehicles in mass formation;
changing direction of march.

166

b. If columns are already in movement, the
commander increases the speed of his own vehicle. Vehicles in the designated column follow
the commander's vehicle at the increased speed.
The remaining vehicles continue at the original
speed until it is their turn to follow, when they
increase their speed to conform to that of the vehicles ahead. When the movement has been completed, the original speed is resumed.

I

I

e

D8y
Figure 50. Vehicles being in formation of several columns
abreast, to form single column.

167

CHAPTER 10
FORMATIONS OF THE BATTALION AND
THE REGIMENT

Section I. GENERAL
186. GENERAL.

a.

The formations described in

this chapter pertain to the infantry battalion and
regiment. Using them as a guide, corresponding
units of other arms and of the services conform
so far as is appropriate.
b. The regiment does not drill by command. Its
battalions form and march as directed by the regimental commander. When practicable, the formation and movement of the subdivisions of the
battalion and regiment should be made clear to
subordinate commanders before starting the
movement.
c. The battalion drills by command when in
mass formation. Such drill is limited to movements for ceremonies where the units of the battalion execute the manual, facings, and marchings as one body at the command of the battalion
commander. These movements are executed by
the battalion in a manner similar to that prescribed for the company.
d. The assembly of units in mass formation is
directed by .the battalion commander. Each comCf
pany commander moves his company to its place
in the most convenient manner.
168

e. To assume any formation, the battalion or
regimental commander indicates the formation
desired, the point where the right (left) of the
battalion or regiment is to be, and the direction
in which the line or column is to face. Formations
should be such that, in approaching the line on
which the battalion or regiment forms, columns
and lines are either perpendicular or parallel to
the front.
f. Upon completion of the movement ordered
by the battalion commander, companies may be
given AT EASE until another movement is
ordered. In ceremonies, after the ceremony has
started, units remain at attention until ordered
to stand at ease by the next higher commander.
9. After a battalion is halted, its subdivisions
make no movement to correct alinement or position unless so directed by the battalion commander.
h. When a unit is presented to its commander
or to a reviewing officer, the officer who presents
it faces his unit in giving the commands: 1. PRESENT, 2. ARMS. 'When all elements of his unit are
at present arms, he faces to the front and salutes.
The members of his staff salute and terminate the
salute with him. His guidon or flag bearer (if
present) executes and terminates present guidon
with his salute.
187. COMMANDS AND ORDERS. The commands or
orders of the battalion or regimental commander
are given orally, by bugle, by signal, or by means
of staff officers or orderlies who communicate
them to the commanders concerned.
169

188. STAFF. a. The staff of a commander forms in
his rear in one rank at a distance of one and onehalf paces. Enlisted personnel form one and onehalf paces in rear of the commissioned staff. If
only one staff officer is present, he is posted one
pace to the right and one and one-half paces to
the rear of the commander. Staff officers usually
are arranged from right to left in order of rank,
the senior on the right, but the commander may
cause them to be arranged in any order he desires.
Enlisted personnel forming with the staff ordinarily are posted in order of rank from right to
left, except that the bearer of a general officer's
flag is on the right.
b. When necessary to reduce the front of the
staff, as in marching, it is formed in a column of
threes under the direction of the senior staff officer and follows the commander.

Section II. BATTALION

189. FORMATIONS. a. The battalion forms in column, in line with companies in line, in line with
companies in mass, and in mass, as shown in
figures 51 to 54, inclusive. For inspections, the
battalion is formed in column of companies, each
company being in column of platoons in line. (See
par. 218.) For placing of trucks, see paragraphs
169, 173 and 174.
b. The band isposted by the adjutant as indicated in figures 52 and 53.
170

BATTALION COMMANDER
AND STAFF
12 PACES

HALTED OR MARCHING

HL
l

BATTALION HEADOUARTERS
COMPANY

12 PACES
HALTED OR MARCHING!

D_
PORIFLE

COMPANY

12 PACES
HALTED OR MARCHING

RIFLE COMPANY

12 PACES
HALTED OR MARCHING

F

COLORS

RIFLE COMPANY

IZ PACES
HALTED OR MARCHING

D

HEAVY WEAPONS COMPANY

Figure 51. Battalion in column.
674344o-46-12

171

c. Other attached units take position as directed
by the battalion commander and conform to the
formation and movements of the units of the battalion.
d. In whichever direction the battalion faces,
the companies are designated numerically from
right to left in line and from head to rear in column; that is, first company, second company,
third company.
e. The terms "right" and "left" apply to right
and left as the troops face.
f. The designation "center company" indicates
the center or the right center company, according
to whether the number of companies is odd or
even.
9. The battalion commander supervises the formation from such positions as will best enable him
to correct alinements, intervals, and distances.
With his staff (less the adjutant) he takes post
in time to receive the report.
h. Officers armed with a saber in the interior of
a mass formation remain at carry saber at all
times except when the battalion is at rest or at
ease.
i. Any formation or combination of formations
may be employed to meet existing conditions of
space or purpose.
190. TO FORM IN COLUMN.

The battalion may

form in column from line of companies in line by
executing right face. Usually, the battalion commander prescribes the formation, the direction in
which the column will face, the hour of forming,
the location of the head of the column, and the
172

order in column of the headquarters, companies,
attached units, and trains. Company commanders
form their units as prescribed and place them in
their proper places in column by the time indicated, reporting their arrival in place to the battalion commander or his adjutant.
191..TO FORM IN LINE WITH COMPANIES IN LINE
(FOR CEREMONIES). a. The adjutant indicates with

two flags, one on each flank, the line on which the
battalion is to form. He takes' post on the right
of and facing down the line, and draws saber, if
so armed.
b. When the band is present, the adjutant
causes Adjutant's Call to be sounded.
c. Companies are marched from the left flank
in column of threes (fours) so as to arrive at
positions parallel to and in rear of the line successively from right to left. The command of execution for their movement is so timed that they
will step off at the first note of the music following.Adjutant's Call. The line of march is sufficiently off the line on which. the battalion is to form
to permit the expeditious alinement of guides of
the right company by the adjutant. As each company arrives in rear of its position, it is halted
and faced to the left. The company commander
then commands: GUIDES ON LINE. At this
command, the guide of each platoon moves (at the
trail) to his position on the line indicated by the
flags and faces the adjutant. The adjutant alines
the guides of the right company; the guides of
other companies cover the guides already on the
line. As soon as the guides have established them173

ig

.

at

ndi

Figure 52. Battalion in line with companies in line.

selves on the line, the company is alined as prescribed in paragraph 160. The right man of the
front rank places himself so that his chest touches
the guide.
d. When all units have reached their positions
on the line, the band stops playing, and the adjutant moves by the most direct route to a position midway between the line of company commanders and the battalion commander and faces
the battalion.
e. When all units are dressed, the adjutant commands: 1. GUIDES, 2. POST. At this command, the
guides move to their normal positions in ranks.
f. The adjutant then brings the battalion to present arms, faces the battalion commander, salutes,
and reports, "Sir, the battalion is formed." (See
par. 1 5 6 g.)
g. The battalion commander returns the salute
and orders, "Take your post, sir." The adjutant
passes to the battalion commander's right and
174

takes his post on the line of the staff. The battalion
commander draws saber (if so armed) and brings
the battalion to order arms.

t8 PAICC

rnys
.

#

conea~e
rI T

O

d
LE

HEAVY

CES

rLE
l

COIMPANT

COAN

PCES

m

#

R

N
PANY

PACES

6 pACS

Co

1

PACES

Figure 53. Battalion in line with companies in.
mass formation.

192. TO FORM IN LINE WITH COMPANIES IN MASS
FORMATION (FOR CEREMONIES). The procedure is

the same as in forming in line, except thata. Companies are marched from either flank in
column of threes (fours), the line of march being
well in rear of the line on which the battalion is
to form. When opposite its place in line, each
company successively executes column left
(right). As soon as this column movement has
been initiated, the company commander orders:
GUIDE OF LEADING PLATOON ON LINE. At
this command, the guide of the leading platoon
moves out at the double time to the line indicated
by the flags, halts, comes to the order arms, and
faces the adj~utant. The guide indicates the right
175

of the company. The company commander then

orders:

1. COMPANY MASS LEFT (COMPANY MASS

.... PACES LEFT), 2.

MARCH, the order being so
timed that the leading platoon will halt just short
of the line of guides. The remaining platoons successively move into position on the left of the
leading platoon at the designated interval.
b. At the command 1. GUIDES, 2. POST, the
guides move to their normal positions.
The procedure is the same as in forming in line (par. 191)
except that companies are marched from either
flank in column of threes (fours) at close interval
without distance between platoons, the line of
march being well in rear of the line on which
the battalion is to form. When opposite its place
in line, each company executes column left
(right). As soon as this column movement has
been initiated, the company commander commands: GUIDE, LEADING PLATOON ON
LINE. The guide moves out, the company is
halted, and guides take their posts as described in
paragraph 192.
193. TO FORM BATTALION IN MASS.

194. TO DISMISS THE BATTALION. a. The battalion

commander commands: DISMISS YOUR COMPANIES.
b. Company commanders salute the battalion
commander, march their companies to the place
of dismissal, and dismiss them as prescribed in
paragraph 159.
176

18 PACES

4 INCHES

6 PACES

>z

>

0

0
U

U
l

-i

0

U
LL

A

m

Figure 54. Battalion in mass formation.

c. The companies having marched off, the battalion commander dismisses his staff.
d. In case the battalion commander desires to
release the companies to their commanders, without prescribing that the companies promptly be
dismissed, he commands: TAKE CHARGE OF
YOUR COMPANIES. Company commanders
salute the battalion commander and take charge
of their companies.
177

Section III. REGIMENT
195. FORMATIONS. a. The regiment forms in column with battalions in column, in column with
battalions in mass, in line with battalions in mass,
or in line with battalions in line of company
masses as shown in figures 55 to 57 inclusive. For
placing of trucks in formation, see paragraphs
169, 173, and 174.
REGIMENTAL
COMMANDER
AND STAFF

12 PACES

12 PACES

BAND
36 PACES

REGIMENTAL
COMMANDER
AND STAFF
BAND

36 PACES
BATTALION
BATTALION
36 PACES

36 PACES

BATTALION
BATTALION

36 PACES

COLORS

36 PACES

COL

BATTALION
36 PACES

BATTALION
PROVISIONAL
BATTALION
36 PACES

PROVISIONAL
BATTALION

O
Figure 55. Regiment in column. O With battalions in
column. O With battalions in mass formation.
178

36 PACES

t

t

,0 PACES

18PACES

I

1

p

PACES

S

CI

PACES

I

PACES

414.12.

L-0A
FiiON ur

BATTALION

U
BAND

BATTALION

bATTALION

Figure 56. Regiment in line with battalions in
mass formation.

b. The regimental special units usually are
grouped as a provisional battalion. If not grouped
as a provisional battalion, all special units form on
the left of the regiment when it is in line or at the
rear when it is in column. (See fig. 57.)

196. TO FORM THE REGIMENT. a. The regimental

commander prescribes the formation, whether it
will be with or without trucks, the place where
the regiment is to form, the direction in which it
will face, the hour of forming, location of head
of column (or right of the line), and the order in
column or line of the headquarters, band, battalions, special and attached units, and trains.
179

b. The regimental commander gives his orders
either orally or in writing. They may be given directly to the officers concerned or communicated
to them through his staff.
c. Before forming the regiment, the regimental
commander may cause the positions which are to
be taken by the larger elements to be indicated
by markers.
d. Battalions (special units) are given rest
upon arrival at their designated places.
e. For ceremonies, the procedure as described
for the formation of a battalion is followed (par.
191) except that battalion adjutants take post on
the line on which the regiment is to form at
Adjutant's Call. Battalion adjutants face down
the line from positions six paces from the point
where the right flanks of their respective battalions will rest. When all units of their battalions
are on line, they move to their posts by the most
direct routes.
f. The regimental adjutant acts for the regiment in a manner similar to that prescribed for
the battalion adjutant in paragraph 191.
g. When a commander or adjutant gives a command which is to be executed by troops under the
command of a subordinate commander, as 'when
a regimental adjutant causes the troops to be
brought to attention, the command is given in a
conversational tone of voice just loud enough to
be distinctly heard by the subordinate commanders. It is not separated into a preparatory command and a command of execution, nor is it given
so smartly as to cause its being executed pre-mature by some of the troops.
180

197. TO DISMISS THE REGIMENT. To dismiss the
regiment, the regimental commander orders the

battalion (special unit) commanders to dismiss
their organizations. Procedure is as described in
paragraph 194.
1

O
u)

BAND
BN. HO. CO.

2

RIFLE CO.

IL' 0j

RIFLE CO,

E

RIFLE CO.

Cl

HEAVY WEAPONS CO.

-

BN. HQ. CO.

[-

RIFLE CO.

U Ao

?

RIFLE CO.

[4

_- RIFLE CO.
,

HEAVY WEAPONS CO.'

,fl <--- arON

COLORS

oO

BN. HQ. CO.

-

RIFLE CO.

I

RIFLE CO.

El RIFLE CO.

El HEAVY WEAPONS CO.
~

REGTL. HQ. CO.

elM
U W

ANTITANK CO.

·4L"'<J

CANNON CO.

I

SERVICE CO.

O

MEDICAL DET.

Figure 57. Regiment in line with, companies in
'mass formation.

181

CHAPTER 11
CEREMONIES
Section I. REVIEWS AND PRESENTATION
OF DECORATIONS
198. ELEMENTS OF A REVIEW. A review may consist of six parts:
a. Formation of troops.
b. Retreat (if scheduled).
c. Presentation and honors.
d. Inspection (passing around the troops).
e. Decorations and awards (if scheduled).
f. March in review.

* 1
Figure 58. Preparations for review.

182

199. COMMANDER OF TROOPS.

The senior officer

present in the ceremony is designated as commander of troops. He is responsible for the formation, presentation, and march in review. A
commander reviewing his own troops designates
some other officer as commander of troops. When
the review is given for a visiting higher commander or civilian dignitary, the local commander
designates a commander of troops so that he may
accompany, and receive the review with, the
visitor.
200. PREPARATIONS. The line on which the troops

are to form and along which they are to march is
marked out or otherwise designated. The post of
the reviewing officer is marked with a flag placed
opposite the center of the line of the troops. (See
fig. 58.)
201. FORMATIONS. a. Any of the formations prescribed for the battalion or regiment may be
used. The formation used depends on the space
available and the formation in which the units are
to pass in review, and may be modified to meet the
local situation. (See fig. 59.)
b. In reviews of a regiment or larger group,
especially when troops pass in review in mass
formation, special arrangements are made to provide for breaking up into march columns. after
troops have passed the reviewing officer. This
may be done by assigning areas which do not block
the line of march into which different units can
move while still in mass formation. (See also par.
165b.)

183

r.-.......-I-

.__L '--'_
(

1
-

_; ______

BATTALIONREVIEW COMPANIES
IN LINE SQUADCOLUMNSPARALLEL
TO FRONT

_____.
C

REVIEWINGOFFICER

BAND

I

U

,

D

D

D

D

POsO

REGIMENTALREVIEW. BATTALIONS
IN MASS FORMATION. SQUAD COLUMNS
PERPENDICULAR
TO FRONT

2
L
REVIEWINGOFFICER

Figure 59. Formations for review.

202. FORMATION FOR REVIEW. a. Battalions and

regiments are formed as prescribed. In reviews in
which two or more arms are present, the troops
are arranged as directed by the commander of
troops. The following order, from right to left in
line, may be used as a guide; infantry regiments
and other units which contain foot troops; horse
cavalry; horse-drawn artillery; motorized artillery; tanks and mechanized cavalry; tank destroyer units; motorized service units. (See AR
600-25.) Within each category, the units are arranged in the order of rank of their commanders.
b. Troops move to position in the most convenient manner. In large reviews, the commander of
184

troops prescribes the routes and time of arrival.
If the frontage of units has been measured and
marked, they may arrive in any convenient order
and occupy their place in line. If this is not done,
units must form successively from the right. The
former method is preferable in large mixed commands.
c. When commanders are mounted in motor vehicles, they dismount and take posts as prescribed
or as otherwise directed from the time their units
arrive on the line until the command PASS IN
REVIEW.
d. In motorized or mechanized units or elements, occupants of vehicles usually are required
to form dismounted in a formation corresponding
to that of the other units participating in the review. At the command PASS IN REVIEW, .they
break ranks, move at double time, and mount their
vehicles.
e. An adjutant designated by the commander
of troops forms the troops in a manner similar to
that described for a battalion or regiment. (See
pars. 191 and 196.) After all units are formed and
alined and have been brought to attention (if at
rest or ease), he commands: PRESENT ARMS.
(See par. 196g.) When all the troops have come to
present arms, he faces the commander of troops,
salutes, and reports.
(1) If the formation consists of one battalion,
it presents arms at the command of the adjutant.
(2) If the formation consists of one regiment
(two or more battalions), at the command of the
adjutant, the commanders of battalions and special units bring their units to present arms, start185

ing with the center (right center) battalion and
continuing simultaneously toward both flanks.
(3) If the formation consists of two or more
regiments, the regimental commanders repeat the
command of the adjutant, starting with the center (right center) regiment and continuing simultaneously toward both flanks. (See par. 196.) The
battalion and special unit commanders within the
respective regiments then bring their units to
present arms as described in (2) above.
(4) Units and individuals not armed with the
rifle execute hand salute (present saber) at the
command PRESENT ARMS during the presentation to the commander of troops, the presentation
and rendering of honors to the reviewing officer,
and the retreat ceremony. They terminate the
salute at the command of execution of ORDER
ARMS. They remain at attention during the execution of the manual of arms.
f. The commander of troops and his staff take
position midway between the leading rank of unit
commanders and the post of the reviewing officer,
opposite and facing the center of the line. He returns the salute of the adjutant and orders him
to take his post. He then draws saber (if so
armed), brings the command to ORDER ARMS, commands: REST or AT EASE, and faces toward the
post of the reviewing officer.
(1) The members of the staff do not salute
with the commander of troops when the troops are
presented to him.
(2) Troops execute the commands of the commander of troops in the manner described in e
above.
186

(3) When the commander of troops faces
toward the post of the reviewing officer, the members of his staff move to their proper positions in
his rear. This is done at the commands of the
senior staff officer.
203. REVIEWING PARTY. a. When the formation

has been completed, the reviewing officer with his
staff moves to his position opposite the center of
the line of troops to receive the review.
b. The local commander (if not acting as commander of troops), distinguished persons invited
to accompany the reviewing officer but not themselves receiving the review, staffs, and enlisted
personnel take positions facing the troops as
shown in figure 60. When an organization is to
be reviewed before an inspecting or other officer
junior in rank to the local commander, the former
takes position on the left of the local commander.
CIVILIAN

LOCAL
COMMANDER

REVIEWING
OFFICER

IDi I_

STAFF OF LOCAL COMMANDER

A

F

PACES

I'/

STAFF OF REVIEWING OFFICER
A

F-h'--D
I-1
3 PACES

-

a]

,ORDERLYK

FLAG OF
LOCAL
COMMANDER

a
FLAG OF
REVIEWING
OFFICER

Figure 60. Reviewing party.

674344 0-46-13

187

ORDERLY

c. An officer from the local staff is designated
to escort distinguished persons and to indicate to
them their proper places. If a civilian is to receive
the review, he takes position on the right of the
local commander; if necessary, timely explanation
of the ceremony is made to him. The reviewing
party is mounted only when the commander of
troops is mounted.
d. As the reviewing officer moves to his position, the commander of troops faces his troops and
brings them to attention.
204. RETREAT. a. When a review is held at retreat,

the commander of troops, as soon as the reviewing
officer arrives at his post and the troops have been
brought to attention, brings the troops to present
arms and then commands or signals the band or
field music: SOUND RETREAT. The bugles
sound retreat, and immediately afterward the
band plays the National Anthem. If no band is
present, the bugles sound To the Color. When evening parade is held on an army post, the gun is
fired at the last note of retreat, and as the
National Anthem (To the Color) is played, the
flag is lowered in the manner prescribed in AR
600-25.

b. The commander of troops remains facing the
troops and salutes at the first note of the National
Anthem (To the Color). His staff, the reviewing
officer and his staff, and all military spectators
salute at the same time and hold the salute until
the last note of the music. The commander of
troops, upon terminating his salute, faces the reviewing officer, and salutes. The members of his
188

staff salute and complete their salutes with him,
and the ceremony proceeds as described in paragraph 205.
c. Each regimental color (standard) salutes at
the command: 1. PRESENT, 2. ARMS, given by the
commander of the battalion with which the colors
are posted or by the commander of the battalion
to the right of the colors when they are not posted
with a battalion. When the. grade of the reviewing officer entitles him to the honor, the regimental color remains at the salute until the last battalion is brought to order arms -at the completion
of the presentation and honors; otherwise, the
regimental color returns to the order at the last
note of the National Anthem (To the Color). The
National Color renders no salute. (See pars. 247
and 248.)

205. PRESENTATION AND HONORS. a. When a re-

view is held at a time other than at retreat, the
commander of troops brings the troops to present
arms as soon as the reviewing officer has taken
his post. If the grade of the reviewing officer
entitles him to the honor, each regimental or separate battalion color salutes with its command. (See
par. 204c.) When all the troops have presented
arms, the commander of troops faces the reviewing officers and salutes, the members of his staff
saluting with him. The reviewing officer returns
the salute. The commander of troops terminates
his salute, brings the troops to order arms, and,
when the formation consists of more than one battalion, orders AT EASE.
189

b. Hdnors will be rendered the reviewing office'r
when his grade so entitles him, as prescribed in
AR 600-30. The band (a designated band near the
center of the command, if more than one band is
present) or field music sounds the honors when
tle commander of troops and his staff salute the
reviewing officer as described in a above. The reviewing officer, the members of his staff, and all
military spectators salute at the first note of the
music and hold the salute until the music and gun
salute are completed. When the honors are completed, the comnfander of troops terminates his
salute and brings the troops to order arms and at
ease as described in a above.
c. When artillery is present in the review and
when the commander of troops deems it practicable, a salute may be fired in the manner prescribed in AR 600-25. The first gun is fired with
the first note of the music. The detachment firing
the salute rejoins its unit after the salute is fired.
Use of the gun salute should be limited to special
ceremonial occasions when it is desired to stage
an especially impressive ceremony. For appropriate gun salutes, see AR 600-25.

206. INSPECTION. a. Upon completion of the presentation and honors, the reviewing officer and his
party move forward to the post of the commander
of troops, halting at 6 paces distance. The two
exchange salutes. Their staffs do not salute. The
commander of troops then conducts the reviewing
party around the formation, beginning with the
190

unit on the right of the line and passing in front
of the line and then around the rear of the formation. In large reviews, the reviewing party ordinarily passes between the line of regimental commanders and staffs and the line of battalion commanders and staffs. The commander of troops and
the local commander march on that side of the
reviewing officer which is away from the troops.
The staffs of the commander of troops, of the local commander (if present), and of the reviewing
officer follow, each staff following its own commander in column of files.
(1) The reviewing officer may direct that his
staff, flag, and orderlies remain at the post of the
reviewing officer or that only his personal staff
and flag accompany him.
(2) If the inspection is to be made in motor
vehicles, the reviewing party enters vehicles which
drive up to the post of the reviewing officer after
completion of the honors. In each vehicle one seat
on the right side (the side away from-the troops
during the inspection) is left vacant. The vehicles
move to the post of the commander of troops and
stop. The commander of troops exchanges salutes
with the reviewing officer, enters the reviewing
officer's vehicle, and occupies the vacant seat. His
staff officers occupy the vacant seats in the remaining vehicles. Orderlies and flag remain at
their posts. The vehicles proceed on the route of
inspection prescribed in a above.
b. As the reviewing party approaches each company or battalion (if the battalion is in mass formation), its commander commands: 1. EYES, 2.
RIGHT. The men execute eyes right. As soon as
191

the reviewing officer comes into their line of
vision, they follow him with their eyes, turning
the head, until he reaches their front, when the
head and eyes of each man, individually, remain
fixed to the front.
(1) If the troops are standing at ease, each
company or massed unit is brought to attention
as the reviewing party approaches.
(2) The band of an organization plays while
the reviewing officer is in front or rear of the
organization.
(3) The reviewing officer and those accompanying him salute the color when passing in front
of it.
(4) The reviewing officer makes such general
inspection of the command as he may desire while
passing around the troops. A detailed inspection
is not a part of the ceremony of review.
c. On arriving at the right of the band after
passing around the line, the commander of troops
salutes and halts. The reviewing officer returns
the salute and proceeds with his staff to his post.
When the reviewing officer and his staff have
passed him, the commander of troops and his staff
move directly to their posts facing the reviewing
officer. If the inspecting party is in motor vehicles, the stop is made at the post of the commander of troops, where the commander of troops
dismounts, exchanges salutes with the reviewing
officer, and resumes his post, his staff dismounting
and resuming their posts at the same time. The
vehicles then proceed to the post of the reviewing
officer, where the members of the reviewing party
dismount and resume their posts.
192

IN REVIEW. When the reviewing
party is again in place after the inspection of
troops, the commander of troops commands:
PASS IN REVIEW.
a. At the command PASS IN REVIEW, the band
of the right unit changes direction and halts.
When the band has halted, the commander of the
unit next to the band gives the necessary commands to put the troops in march in the formation
designated for the review. (See fig. 59.) The
band starts to play and marches forward at the
command of execution MARCH given by the commander of the unit next to the band. Other units
move out in succession in order to follow in column
at the prescribed distance. Troops pass in review
at quick time only.
b. The band and each unit change direction at
the points indicated without command from the
commander of troops. When units are in mass
formation, at each change of direction the commander of each mass formation (company or bat207. MARCH

talion)

in turn commands:

1. LEFT TURN, 2.

MARCH, 3. FORWARD, 4. MARCH. The third and
fourth commands are given so that the unit steps
off at full step when the change of direction is
completed.
(1) Regimental and battalion commanders,
other than the commander of troops, move into
position in the column at the head of their troops
after the first change of direction.
(2) The commander of troops moves into position at the head of the column after the second
change in direction. (See fig. 59.)
193

c. The commander of troops and the regimental
and battalion commanders salute when they arrive
6 paces from the front of the reviewing officer and
terminate the salute when their staffs have passed
6 paces beyond the front of the reviewing officer.
Members of their staffs salute with them. The
reviewing officer returns their salutes. Other members of the reviewing party do not salute.
d. After saluting the reviewing officer, the commander of troops turns out of the column, takes
post on the side of the reviewing officer toward
the direction of march of the command, and returns saber (if so armed). The members of his
staff accompany him, take post on the corresponding side of the reviewing officer's staff, and return
saber with him. When the rear element of his
command has passed, the commander of troops,
without changing his position, salutes the reviewing officer with the hand salute. He and the members of his staff draw saber (if so armed), then
rejoin the command.
(1) If the person reviewing the command is not
mounted in a motor vehicle, the commander of
troops and his staff, on turning out of the column
after passing the reviewing officer, dismount prepatory to taking post. In such case, the salute of
the commander of troops, prior to rejoining his
command, is made before remounting.
(2) If the commander of troops and his staff
are in motor vehicles, the vehicles are parked on
the side of the reviewing officer toward the direction of march and in rear of the lines occupied by
the reviewing officer, the commander of troops,
and their staffs.
194

e. Band leaders and drum majors execute and
terminate the salute at the points prescribed for
other commanders. Each band, when it has passed
the reviewing officer, executes column left three
times in order to take position in front of and
facing the reviewing officer and at least 12 paces
from the left flank of the marching troops. It
continues to play until the band following it nears
the post of the reviewing officer. It then ceases
playing and leaves the field. The band following
begins playing as soon as the preceding band has
ceased.
(1) In large commands, two bands may remain
alongside each other after they have turned out
of column to alternate in playing while the troops
pass in review, or bands may be massed and
posted as directed by the commander of troops.
(2) If only one band is present, it remains in
position facing the reviewing officer until the review has ended and then follows in rear of the
last unit.
f. Troops march in review with the guide toward the flank on which the reviewing officer
is posted. Each company commander (or the
senior company commander if the battalion is in
mass formation), without turning his body, commands: 1. EYES, 2. RIGHT, 3. READY, 4. FRONT.
He gives the command RIGHT when he is 6 paces
from the front of the reviewing officer, and the
command FRONT when the rear of his unit has
passed 6 paces beyond the reviewing officer. He
brings his saber (if so armed) to the first position
of present saber at the command EYES and to the
second position at the command RIGHT. He re195

sumes the carry at the command FRONT. In each
company or mass formation the men on the right
do not execute eyes right. The following officers
and enlisted men salute at the command 1. EYES,
2. RIGHT.
(1) The company commander executes hand
salute (present saber). Orderlies execute hand
salute. Guidon or flag bearers execute present
guidon.
(2) In battalion mass formation company commanders and platoon leaders in the front rank of
the mass execute hand salute (present saber). No
others salute.
(3) In a company not part of a battalion in
mass formation, platoon leaders execute hand
salute (present saber).
(4) All terminate the salute at the command
FRONT. Those with sabers, guidons, or flags return to the carry.
g. The reviewing party and all spectators salute the colors as they pass by. Each color guard
executes eyes right at the command of the senior
color sergeant as it passes the reviewing officer.
If the grade of the reviewing officer entitles him
to the honor, the regimental or separate battalion
color salutes. (See par. 248c.)
208. PRESENTATION OF DECORATIONS.

A review

is ordinarily held on occasions of the presentation
of decorations or of the decoration of the colors.
a. After the reviewing officer has inspected the
troops and resumed his post (par. 206), the commander of troops, from his own post, commands
196

or signals by prearranged signal: 1. PERSONS TO
BE DECORATED AND ALL COLORS, CENTER, 2. MARCH.
At the command MARCH, persons to be decorated
and all colors move by the most direct route and
take post as follows:
(1) The persons to be decorated in a single
rank in the center of the command and 10 paces
in front of the line of company commanders according to the rank of the decorations to be conferred, highest ranking decoration on the right.
Those receiving similar decorations take position
in accordance with their military rank within each
decoration group.
(2) Colors to be decorated in single rank 5
paces in front of the center of the line of persons
to be decorated in groups according to rank of
decoration to be bestowed, highest ranking decoration on the right.
(3) All other colors with color guards in single
rank 5 paces in rear of the center of the persons
to be decorated and in the same relative position
as their location in the command.
b. The commander of troops takes post five
paces in front of the center of the leading element. At the same time his staff, under command
of the senior staff officer, executes right face,'
moves to the right a sufficient distance to provide
clearance for the colors and persons to be decorated, then halts and executes left face, returning
to position after the detachment has passed. When
the staff has effected the necessary clearance, the
commander of troops commands: 1. FORWARD,
2. MARCH. At the command MARCH, the commander of troops, the persons to be decorated, and
197

the colors advance, the band playing. The commander of troops marches directly toward the reviewing officer. The guide is center in all ranks.
The detachment is halted by the commander of
troops when he has reached a point 10 paces from
the reviewing officer by the commands: 1. DETACHMENT, 2. HALT. He then salutes the reviewing
officer and reports, "Sir, the persons (colors) to
be decorated are present." The reviewing officer
returns the salute and directs that the command
be presented.
c. The commander of troops passes around the
right flank of the persons or colors to be decorated
and proceeds directly to his post. On reaching his
post, he brings the troops to present arms, faces
about, and salutes. The band (field music) then
plays the National Anthem (To the Color). On
completion of the music, the commander of troops
brings the troops to order arms and has them
stand at ease. The persons to be decorated salute
and terminate the salute at the first and last notes
of the National Anthem (To the Color).
d. A designated staff officer then reads the citation or the order announcing the awards. After
the reading of the citation (order), the reviewing
officer, accompanied if necessary by his staff or
designated members thereof, advances to the colors and to the line of persons to be decorated,
fastens the appropriate streamer to the staff of
the color, and pins the appropriate decoration on
the left breast of each person. He then directs
the commander of troops to march the command
in review and resumes his post. The persons decorated, at the command of the senior officer or
198

enlisted man present, form line on the left of the
reviewing officer or as otherwise directed, and the
colors return to their posts by the most direct
route.
Section II. PARADES
209. BATTALION OR REGIMENT. a. The battalion or

regimental parade'is executed in the same manner
as a review, except that the appearance and movement of troops in formation are the primary considerations. For this reason, the troops usually
form without heavy weapons or transportation,
and all companies form as, and execute the
movements prescribed for, foot troops. Srhall detachments are attached to larger units. The
march to the initial formation is made to music
(band or field music).
b. At evening parade, the retreat ceremony described in paragraph 204 precedes the presentation of the troops to the reviewing officer. (See
par. 205.)
c. The presentation of decorations or escort of
the color may be included after the troops have
'been presented to the reviewing officer. (See pars.
208 and 213.)
d. The reviewing officer's inspection of troops
is omitted.
210. CEREMONIAL BATTALION PARADE.

This pa-

rade ceremony may be used in lieu of the ceremony described in paragraph 209. If differs from
the latter in the following respects:
199

a. After the battalion has been formed and
alined and the guides have taken their posts, (par.
191e), the adjutant, before presenting the battalion to the battalion commander, commands:
1. PARADE, 2. REST. When the troops have executed parade rest, he commands: SOUND OFF.
The adjutant, and the battalion commander with
his staff, stand at attention during the playing of
the Sound Off, the marching by of the band, and
the sounding of retreat.
b. At the command SOUND OFF, the band, in
place, plays the Sound Off of three chords, and at
the conclusion of the third chord moves forward,
playing a march in quick time. It executes column
left in 'order to march across the front of the
troops midway between the adjutant and the line
of troops. When it has passed the left of the line,
it countermarches and returns over the same
ground to the right of the line. After it has passed
beyond the right of the troops, it executes column
right. When the entire band has passed beyond
the front rank of the troops, it again countermarches and halts in its original position. When
the band ceases playing the march, the Sound Off
is again played.
c. At evening parade, immediately after the
completion of SOUND OFF, the field music plays
Retreat, and the retreat ceremony described in
paragraph 204 follows, the adjutant bringing the
troops to attention and present arms at the last
note of Retreat. The adjutant, the battalion commander, and the other members of the battalion
200

commander's staff salute at the first note of the
National Anthem (To The Color) and terminate
the salute at the last note.
d. At the completion of the National Anthem
(To the Color) with the troops still at present
arms, the adjutant faces about, salutes the battalion commander, and reports, "Sir, the parade
is formed." The battalion commander orders,
"Take your post, sir," and draws saber (if so
armed). The adjutant passes by the battalion
commander's right and takes post 11/2 paces to the
rear and 1 pace to the right of the battalion commander.
e. The battalion commander then commands:
and gives such movements in
the manual of arms as he may desire. Officers,
noncommissioned officers commanding platoons,
the color guard, and guidon bearers, having once
executed the order, remain in that position during
the movements of the manual.
1. ORDER, 2. ARMS,

f. The battalion commander then directs the
adjutant, "Receive the reports, sir." The adjutant,
passing by the battalion commander's right, advances toward the center of the battalion, halts
midway between it and the battalion commander,
and commands: REPORT.
(1) At the command REPORT, the company
commanders, in succession from the right, salute
and report, "....

company, all present or ac-

counted for"; or, ".... company, .... officers or
men absent." The adjutant returns each com201

pany commander's salute after the report is
made and understood. If armed with the saber,
he returns to the carry after acknowledging each
salute.
(2) The reports having been received, the adjutaht faces the battalion commander, salutes, and
reports, "Sir, all present or accounted for," or
"Sir, ....
officers or men absent," including
among the absentees those from the band and
field music reported to him by the band leader
prior to the parade.
g. The battalion commander then directs, "Publish the orders, sir." The adjutant faces the troops
and commands: ATTENTION TO ORDERS. He
publishes the orders and then commands: 1. OFFICERS, 2. CENTER, 3. MARCH. After giving the command MARCH, he faces about and takes his post
with the battalion commander.
(1) At the command OFFICERS, all company officers execute carry saber (if so armed), and all
guidon bearers execute carry guidon.
(2) At the command CENTER, when companies
are in line, all company commanders, officers commanding platoons, and guidon bearers face to the
center. When companies are in mass formation,
all company commanders and guidon bearers face
to the center. Officers commanding platoons step
1 pace forward and face to the center. Officers second in command move around the flank nearest to
the center and take post in the column formed by
the platoon leaders.
(3) At the command MARCH, the band plays,
officers and guidon bearers close to the center,
halt, and individually face to the front; company
202

commanders, when moving to the center, oblique
to the front and close on a line 4 paces in advance
of the line of guidon bearers; guidon bearers close
on their own line, each taking post in rear of his
own company commander; all other officers close
on the line of platoon leaders.
(4) The officers and guidon bearers having
closed and faced to the front, the senior commands: 1 FORWARD, 2. MARCH. The officers and
guidon bearers advance, the center officer of the
leading rank being the guide, and march on the
battalion commander. The officers and guidon
bearers are halted by the senior with the'leading
rank 6 paces from the battalion commander. They
halt and salute the battalion commander, who returns the salute and, if armed with the saber,
returns to the carry. The officers then complete
the salute. If armed with the saber, they execute
carry saber with the battalion commander. Guidon
bearers execute carry guidon at the same time. To
assure simultaneous execution by. the officers and
guidon bearers, the movements should be executed
in the rhythm of quick time. The command: 1.
READY, 2. TWO, is given by the battalion commander or senior company commander for the termination of the salute.
h. The battalion commander gives such instructions as he deems necessary and then commands:
1. OFFICERS, 2. POSTS, 3. MARCH.
(1) At the command POSTS, all officers and
guidon bearers face about.
(2) At the command MARCH, they step off,
the center officer of the leading rank being the
guide as before.
674344o--46--14

203

(3) The senior commands: 1. OFFICERS, 2.
HALT, in order to halt the leading rank 6 paces
from the line of companies when companies are
in line and 3 paces when they are in mass formation. He then commands: 1. POSTS, 2. MARCH.
(a) At the command POSTS, officers and guidon
bearers face outward.
(b) At the command MARCH, officers step off
in succession at 4 paces distance, resume their
posts, and execute order saber (if so armed);
guidon bearers step off with their company commanders, resume their posts, and execute order
guidon. 'The music ceases to play when the last
officer has resumed his post. During the execution
of officers center and officers post, except when
saluting the battalion commander, all officers, if
so armed, remain at carry saber, and all guidon
bearers remain at carry guidon.
i. The battalion commander then gives the commands for the battalion to pass in review and returns saber, if so armed. The battalion passes in
review according to the commands and in the
manner prescribed for a review. (See par. 207.)
When the last company has passed, the ceremony
is concluded.
i. The band continues to play while the companies are in march upon the parade ground.
After passing in review, companies are marched
to their respective parades and dismissed.
211. CEREMONIAL REGIMENTAL PARADE. The regi-

ment is ordinarily formed in line of companies
with companies in mass formation. This ceremony
204

may be used in lieu of that described in paragraph
209 and proceeds as for the ceremonial battalion
parade (par. 210) with the following exceptions:
a. "Regimental commander" is substituted for
"battalion commander," and "regiment" for "battalion" in the description.
b. In moving across the front of the regiment,
the band passes midway between the adjutant and
the line of battalion commanders.
c. The battalions execute present arms, order
arms, parade rest, and come to attention at the
command of execution of their respective commanders in the manner described in paragraph
202d. Reports are made by battalion instead of
company commanders.
d. At the command MARCH of 1. OFFICERS,
2. CENTER, 3. MARCH (par. 210g (3) ), battalion
commanders and their staffs close on the line of
battalion commanders and staffs, company commanders oblique to the front and close on a line
4 paces in rear of the battalion staffs, guidon
bearers oblique to the front and close on a line 4
paces in rear of the company commanders, other
officers oblique to the front and close on a line
4 paces in rear of the guidon bearers.
212. STREET PARADE. a. For street parades, troops

are formed and marched in the most convenient
manner. Street parades may include transportation. Weapons transportation with the weapon
towed, or set up in the vehicles when practicable,
adds to the effect of a street parade. Cargo
vehicles are included only when it is desired to increase the size of the display.
205

b. Among the formations which may be used
for street parades are column of threes or fours;
two or more columns of threes or fours abreast;
mass formation.
c. Transportation marches in single column or
column of twos, threes, or fours as the street
width permits.
d. In long street parades, rifles may be carried
slung over the right shoulder.
Section III. ESCORTS
213. ESCORTS OF THE COLOR. a. The regiment being in line, the regimental commander details a
company to receive and escort the national color
to its place. For this ceremony, the regimental
color forms with the color guard at its post with
the regiment.
b. The band moves straight to its front until
clear of the line of battalion commanders, changes
direction if necessary, and halts. The designated
company takes position in column of threes
(fours) 15 paces in rear of the band, with the
color bearer in rear of the leading platoon. The
escort is then marched without music to the regimental commander's office or quarters and is
formed in line facing the entrance. The color
bearer, preceded by the senior lieutenant and followed by a sergeant of the escort, obtains the
color.
c. When the color bearer returns, followed by
the lieutenant and the sergeant, he halts before
the entrance, facing the escort. The lieutenant
206

places himself on the right and the sergeant on the
left of the color bearer. The company commander
brings the company to present arms, and the field
music sounds To the Color. At the last note of
the music, the company commander brings the
company to order arms. The lieutenant and the
sergeant salute and terminate the salute at the
commands of the company commander and return
to their posts.
d. The company is again formed in column, the
band taking post in front of the column and the
color bearer placing himself in the center of the
space in rear of the leading platoon. The escort
is then marched back to the regiment, the band
playing. The march is conducted so that the
escort arrives at a point about 50 paces in front
of the right of the regiment and then moves parallel to its front. When the color arrives opposite
the regimental commander, who has taken his
post in front of the center of the regiment, the
escort is formed in line facing the regiment, and
the color bearer moves to a position 6 paces in
front of the regimental commander.
e. The color bearer having halted, the regimental commander faces the troops and brings the
regiment to present arms. He then faces the
color and salutes. The field music sounds To the
Color. At the last note of the music, the regimental commander terminates his salute, faces the
troops, and brings them to the order. The escort
is brought to present arms and order arms by its
commander following the commands of the regimental commander. When the troops have been
brought to the order, the color bearer moves to
207

his post beside the regimental color bearer. The
escort is faced to the right and, preceded by the
band, is marched to its place in line, moving
around the left flank and in rear of the regiment.
The band plays until the escort has passed the left
of the line. It then returns to its post on the right,
moving in rear of the regiment. The regiment
may be given the command REST after the escort
has passed the left of the line.
f. Escort of the color is executed by a battalion
in a manner similar to that by a regiment.
214. ESCORT OF HONOR. a. Escorts of honor are
detailed for the purpose of receiving and escorting persons of high rank, either civil or military.
Troops are selected for their soldierly appearance
and superior qualities of discipline.
b. The escort is formed in line opposite the
place where the personage is to present himself,
the band on that flank of the escort toward which
the escort is to march. On the appearance of the
personage the escort is brought to attention. It is
brought to present arms, when the honors prescribed in AR 600-25 and 600-30 are rendered.
Upon completion of the honors, the escort is
brought to order arms. Officers and men in uniform, not in formation, but within view and saluting distance, salute and terminate the salute with
the escort. Ordinarily, at the completion of the
honors, the person so honored inspects the escort.
The escort is then formed in column and takes up
the march. The personage with his staff or retinue
takes position in rear of the column. When the
personage leaves the escort, it is again formed in
208

line. When he has taken postion from which to
receive them, the same honors are rendered as on
his arrival.
c. When the position of the escort is at a considerable distance from the point where the personage is to be received, a double line of sentinels,
facing inward, is posted from that point to the
escort. The sentinels successively salute as the
personage passes.
d. An officer is designated to accompany the
personage.
Section IV. INSPECTIONS

215. GENERAL. The company is the basic unit for
inspection. Battalion, regimental, and higher commanders or inspecting officers inspect each company in its own area, or have it march to a designated place at a specified time for inspection.
Under special conditions, an entire battalion or
regiment may be formed and inspected in one
large formation.
216. COMPANY INSPECTION.

a.

Formation.

The

company forms in line or in column of platoons in
line. (See pars. 156 and 166.) If transportation
is to be included in the formation, it forms in line
5 yards in rear or as directed. Drivers remain
with their vehicles. Leaders of animal transportation remain with their animals. Drivers or animal
leaders display their equipment as directed. Transportation may be inspected separately from the
foot elements, as directed.
209

b. Procedure. (1) The company commander commands: PREPARE FOR INSPECTION. At this
command, platoon leaders cause ranks to be
opened. They then place themselves, facing to the
front, 3 paces in advance of the right flank of their
platoons.
(2) Ranks having been opened, the company
commander commands: AT EASE and returns
saber (if so armed). He then inspects the company. During the inspection, officers, noncommissioned officers, and guidon bearers not in ranks
come to attention at order arms as the inspecting
officer approaches, and after being inspected resume the position of at ease. The company commander may direct the executive officer and/or
the first sergeant to join him and take down notes
as he inspects. When so directed, they place themselves at his left rear and accompany him throughout the inspection. The company commander,
commencing at the head of the column or right of
the line, makes a minute inspection of the arms,
equipment, dress, and appearance of the personnel
of the company. As he approaches each platoon,
its commander brings the platoon to attention and
salutes. As soon as inspected, the platoon leader
returns saber (if so armed), places himself to the
right rear of the company commander, and accompanies him throughout the inspection of the
platoon.
(3) The inspection is made from right to left
in front and from left to right in rear of each
rank.
210

(4) Each man executes inspection arms as the
company commander or inspecting officer reaches
his position.
(5) The company commnander takes the rifle,
grasping it with the right hand just above the
lower band, the man dropping his hands. He inspects the rifle and, with the hand and rifle in
the same position as in receiving it, hands it back
to the man, who takes it with the left hand at the
balance and executes order arms.
(6) Should the piece be inspected without handling, each man executes order arms as soon as the
company commander has passed to the next man.
(7) Men armed with the automatic rifle, carbine, and pistol execute their respective inspection arms and resume their original positions
after their weapons have been inspected.
(8) Upon completion of the inspection of each
platoon, its commander resumes his post ((1)
above), faces down the line, commands: 1. CLOSE
RANKS, 2. MARCH, and adds REST after ranks
have been closed. He then takes his post in front
of the center of the platoon.
(9) The company commander may direct the
platoon leaders to make the detailed inspection of
arms or other equipment of the men of their
platoons.
217. INSPECTION OF PERSONAL FIELD EQUIPMENT
WHILE IN RANKS. The company forms in column
of platoons in line. (See par. 166.)

a. The company commander, after the inspection of arms has been completed in a platoon,
211

causes that platoon, remaining at Open Ranks, to
take interval and prepare for inspection of equipment. Intervals having been taken, the platoon
leader commands: 1. UNSLING EQUIPMENT, 2. DISPLAY EQUIPMENT.
(1) At the command UNSLING EQUIPMENT, each
man draws his bayonet and with his left hand
thrusts it into the ground, ring to the front, the
bayonet outside of and against his left heel near
the instep to mark the line for the rear edge of
equipment when displayed. Men not armed with
the bayonet mark the place with the left heel.
Each man then lays his rifle (automatic rifle)
(carbine) (submachine gun) on the ground, muzzle to the front, barrel to the left, butt near the
toe of his right foot, unslings his equipment, and
places it on the ground at his feet, haversack to
the front, the pack 1 foot in front of his toes.
(2) At the command DISPLAY EQUIPMENT,
packs are opened and equipment displayed as prescribed in FM 21-15, and figure 39, this manual.
Equipment is displayed in the interval to the left
of each man. When arrangement of the equipment
is completed, each man resumes his original position in ranks.
b. The company commander passes along the
ranks as before, inspects the equipment, and directs the platoon leader to have packs rolled and
the platoon assembled.
(1) The platoon leader then commands: ROLL
PACKS. Each man assembles his equipment, rolls
his pack, and, leaving his equipment in its position
on the ground at his feet, resumes the position of
attention.
212

(2) All equipment being assembled, the platoon
leader commands: SLING EQUIPMENT. Packs
are slung, belts fastened, rifles (automatic rifles)
(carbines) (submachine gun) taken, and the position of order arms assumed.
(3) The platoon leader then causes the platoon
to assemble. The inspection is completed as described in paragraph 216b (8).
c. In units which have special combat equipment such as machine guhs, mortars, and signal
or command post equipment, the company commander, after packs have been opened or after
the individual inspection has been completed, directs DISPLAY MACHINE-GUN (MORTAR OR
OTHER) EQUIPMENT. Gun squads, under the
direction of their leaders, break ranks and display their weapons and accessories for inspection
as prescribed in the gun drill for the weapons.
Headquarters personnel display the fire-control,
communication, or other combat equipment. The
gun or equipment is displayed in rear of its vehicle. If no transportation is present, the equipment is displayed 3 paces from the flank of each
squad on the side from which interval was taken.
The rear of the equipment is placed on line with
the rear edge of the individual field equipment.
218. BATTALION INSPECTION.

a. The battalion is

formed in column of companies, each company
being formed in column of platoons in line. (See
par. 166.) Before the inspection, the battalion
commander indicates whether heavy weapons and
special equipment are to be displayed for inspection or left on their transportation.
213

b. The battalion being in column of platoons
with all personnel dismounted, the battalion commander commands: PREPARE FOR INSPECTION. At this command, all companies are prepared for inspection. The color bearer and the
color guard proceed to the head of the column
and take position 3 paces in rear of the staff.
c. The battalion commander then commands:
REST, returns saber (if so armed), and inspects
his staff and the color guard. When the battalion
commander approaches the staff, the officers, without command, come to attention (order saber).
When they have been inspected, they return saber
(if so armed) and accompany the battalion commander. As the battalion commander approaches
the color guard, the color bearer commands: 1.
COLOR GUARD, 2. ATTENTION. The color guard
may be dismissed as soon as inspected.
d. The battalion commander, commencing at
the head of the column, makes an inspection of
the arms, accouterments, dress, and appearance
of the personnel of the several companies.
(1) As the battalion commander approaches
each company, its commander faces toward it and
commands: 1. COMPANY, 2. ATTENTION, faces
to the front, and salutes. As soon as he has been
inspected, the company commander faces about
and commands: REST, returns saber (if so
armed), and accompanies the battalion commander. The inspection proceeds as prescribed for
company inspection.
(2) The battalion commander may direct the
company commanders to make the detailed inspection of the arms or other equipment of their
214

companies. He may require officers of his staff
to assist in the inspection, especially by checking
equipment.
(3) When a company has been inspected, the
battalion commander may direct that it be dismissed or proceed with other duties.
e. When desired, the battalion commander may
direct that companies not under inspection stack
arms, fall out, and resume their places in time to
be inspected.
f. If the inspecting officer is an officer other
than the battalion commander, the latter prepares
the battalion for inspection as described in a and
b above and commands REST. Upon the approach
of the inspecting officer, the battalion commander
brings the battalion to attention, faces to the
front, and salutes. The inspecting officer inspects
the battalion commander, who then commands:
REST, returns saber (if so armed), and accompanies the inspecting officer. The inspection then
proceeds as described in c, d, and e above.
Section V. FUNERALS

219. GENERAL. a. Military funerals are divided
into three classes as follows:
(1) With chapel service, followed by march to
the grave or place of local disposition with the
prescribed escort.
(2) Without chapel service, but with funeral
procession forming at the entrance to the cemetery or at a point within a reasonable distance
thereof.
215

(3) With graveside service only.
b. A full military funeral normally consists of
the following elements:
(1) Band.
(2) Escort appropriate to the grade of the deceased including firing party and bugler. (See
AR 600-30.)
(3) Colors.
(4) Clergy.
(5) Caisson and pallbearers.
(6) Caparisoned horse (if the deceased was
mounted).
(7) Honorary pallbearers.
c. The services of an Army chaplain will be
provided unless otherwise requested by the family of the deceased or its representative. A civilian
clergyman may be substituted for or act in conjunction with the Army chaplain. The desires of
the family are paramount and will be given the
fullest consideration as to the selection of elements
involved, but the funeral will be conducted in accordance with these regulations.
d. The commanding officer or his representative will assist in making funeral arrangements
and will supervise the conduct of the funeral.
e. If honorary pallbearers are desired, they will
be selected by the family of the deceased or its
representative, or, if the family or its representative so desires, by the commanding officer.
f. At a military funeral, all persons in the military service attending in their individual capacity
or as honorary pallbearers will stand at attention,
uncovered (except in cold or inclement weather),
and hold the headdress over the left breast at any
216

time when the casket is being moved by the pallbearers and during the service at the grave, including the firing of volleys and the sounding of
Taps. During the prayers they will also bow their
heads. In cold or inclement weather they will remain covered and will execute the hand salute at
any time when the casket is being moved by the
pallbearers and during the firing of volleys and
the sounding of Taps. (See AR 600-30.)
g. When arms are presented at the military
funeral of a person entitled to personal honors,
the prescribed ruffles and flourishes will be
sounded, followed immediately by the National
Anthem (To the Color) or the march prescribed
for the grade of the deceased, except when arms
are presented at the close of the benediction at
the grave. (See AR 600-30.)
h. The word "chapel" as used herein is interpreted to include the church, home, or other places
where 'services are held, exclusive of the service
at the grave.
i. The word "casket" is interpreted to include
the receptacle containing the cremated remains
of the deceased.

220. FUNERAL WITH CHAPEL SERVICE.

a. Prior to

the beginning of the service, the funeral escort
is formed in line opposite and facing the chapel,
the band on the flank toward which it is to march.
b. Members of the immediate family, relatives,
and friends of the deceased will be requested to
enter the chapel and be seated before the casket
217

is taken in. Members of the immediate family
and relatives occupy front seats on the right of
the chapel.
c. The conveyance bearing the remains to the
chapel should arrive in front of the chapel a few
moments before the time set for the chapel service. When all is in readiness to move the casket
into the chapel, the commander of the escort
brings the escort to attention and commands: 1.
PRESENT, 2. ARMS. At the command ARMS, the
band plays an appropriate air, and the casket is
removed from the conveyance by the pallbearers
and carried between the ranks of honorary pallbearers, if present, into the chapel. When the
casket has been carried into the chapel, the-band
ceases playing. The escort is then brought to the
order and may be permitted to stand at ease.
d. If honorary pallbearers are present, they are
formed in two ranks, each facing the other, forming an aisle from the conveyance to the entrance
of the chapel, with sufficient distance between
ranks to permit passage of the casket. At the
first note of the music and while the casket is being borne between the ranks of honorary pallbearers, they uncover or salute as prescribed in
paragraph 219f. They then follow the casket in
column of twos and occupy pews to the left front.
e. When the casket has been placed upon the
church truck, the pallbearers form behind the
honorary pallbearers and are seated behind them.
If there are no honorary pallbearers, the pallbearers follow the casket in column of twos and
occupy pews to the left front. Upon completion
of the chapel service, the pallbearers follow the
218

/

honorary pallbearers or, if none are present, the
chaplain, to the entrance of the chapel.
f. Upon completion of the chapel service, the
honorary pallbearers follow the chaplain in column of twos as the casket is moved to the entrance of the chapel. They again form an aisle
from the entrance of the chapel to the caisson or
hearse and uncover or salute as prescribed in d
above. When the casket has been placed on the
caisson, they enter their conveyances. If marching, they form column of files on each side of the
caisson, the leading member of each column opposite the front wheels of the caisson.
9. The casket, followed by the family group, is
moved to the entrance immediately behind the
honorary pallbearers and pallbearers. As soon as
the honorary pallbearers have taken their positions (f above), the pallbearers carry the casket
to the caisson and form in column of twos behind
it. The family group remains at the chapel entrance until the honorary pallbearers have broken
ranks to enter their conveyances or have taken
their positions at the caisson. The members of
the family group are then conducted to their conveyances.
h. The funeral. escort and band repeat the procedure described in c above when the casket appears at the entrance of the chapel at the conclusion of the service. The band ceases playing,
and the escort is brought to the order, when the
casket has been secured to the caisson.
219
674344°-46-15

i. The procession is then formed in the following order:
(1) Band.
(2) Escort, including colors, firing party, and
bugler.
(3) Clergy.
(4) Caisson and honorary pallbearers, if walking.
(5) Pallbearers.
'(6) Caparisoned horse, if the deceased was
mounted.
(7) Honorary pallbearers, if riding in cars.
(8) Family.
(9) Patriotic or fraternal organizations.
(10) Friends.
j. When the procession has been formed, the
band and the escort are put in march by the commander of the escort. Elements in rear conform.
The procession marches slowly to solemn music.
When the distance to the grave is considerable,
the escort, after leaving the chapel, may march at
ease in quick time until brought to attention in the
vicinity of the grave. The band does not play
while the escort is marching at ease. The field
music may .alternate with the band in playing.
k. As the procession approaches the grave,
marching elements match directly to positions
previously determined. The band and military
escort are formed in line facing the grave, other
marching elements being placed as near as practicable to the grave. The firing party is so placed
that it will not fire directly over the mourners.
220

I. As soon as the caisson is halted, the honorary
pallbearers are formed in two ranks forming an
aisle extending from the caisson toward the grave.
(See d above.) When the grave is too near the
road to permit this formation, they are directed
to take their position at the grave prior to removal
of the casket from the caisson.
m. The pallbearers remove the casket from the
caisson. As they do so, the escort commander
commands: 1. PRESENT, 2. ARMS. At the command ARMS, the band plays an appropriate air.
With the first note of the music, and until the last
note of Taps, military personnel attending in an
individual capacity and honorary pallbearers uncover or salute as prescribed in paragraph 219f.
n. Preceded by the chaplain and the cemetery
representative or funeral director, the pallbearers
bear the casket between the ranks of honorary
pallbearers to the grave and place it on the lowering device. They remain in place facing the casket, raising the flag from the casket and holding
it in a horizontal position, waist high, until the
conclusion of Taps. As soon as the casket has
passed between them, the honorary pallbearers
face toward the grave and follow the casket in
column of twos, followed by the family and
friends.
o. When the casket has been placed over the
grave, the escort is brought to the order, and the
band ceases playing. The commander of the escort
then commands: 1. PARADE, 2. REST. The escort
executes parade rest with officers and men inclining their heads.
221

p. When the escort has been brought to parade
rest, the chaplain conducts the graveside service.
At the conclusion of the benediction, he moves two
steps to the side or rear.
q. When the service has been completed, the
commander brings the escort to attention. He

then commands: 1. ESCORT, LESS FIRING PARTY, 2.
PRESENT, 3. ARMS, 4. FIRING PARTY, 5. FIRE
THREE VOLLEYS. The firing party fires three
volleys of blank cartridges, assumes the position
of ready, and remains in this position until the
conclusion of Taps. (See par. 234.) At the command ARMS the bugler takes position at the head
of the grave and sounds Taps immediately following the last volley.
r. At the conclusion of Taps, the pallbearers
fold the flag as prescribed in AR 260-10, care
being taken that it does not touch the ground. It
is then handed to the superintendent of the cemetery or his representative for disposition in accordance with Army Regulations. The rifles of
the firing party are locked, and the entire escort
is then brought to the order. The band and escort
are put in march in quick time by the commander
of the escort. Other elements conform. At the
first halt, the rifles of the firing party are unloaded
and inspected.
s. On the return march, the band does not play
in the immediate vicinity of the grave. In a small
cemetery, this is considered as within the cemetery limits. In a large cemetery, this is considered
as a distance from the grave so short that the
playing would detract from the solemnity of the
occasion. Care will be exercised to avoid disturb222

ing other funeral processions or services which
may be passed on the route of march.
221. FUNERAL WITHOUT CHAPEL SERVICE, BUT WITH
PROCESSION AND GRAVESIDE SERVICE. a. When

the escort for a military funeral forms at or near
the entrance to the cemetery, the officer in charge
supervises the transfer of the casket from the
hearse to the caisson.
b. If honorary pallbearers are present, they are
formed in single line facing the caisson, the leading honorary pallbearer opposite the front wheel
and on the side opposite to that on which the
hearse is to be halted. If more than 12 are present, they are formed in double rank.
c. While the casket is being transferred from
the hearse to the caisson, the escort is brought
to present arms, and the band plays an appropriate air. The honorary pallbearers uncover or
salute as described in paragraph 219f. During the
transfer of the casket, the family and friends remain in their conveyances.
d. The funeral procession is then formed and
proceeds as prescribed in paragraph 220i to s inclusive.
222. GRAVESIDE SERVICE.

a. For this type of fu-

neral all elements of a full military funeral, except
the caisson and caparisoned horse, may be present
and used as outlined in paragraph 2201 to s inclusive. However, if troops are not conveniently
available or if the family desires to eliminate
other elements, the following will suffice:
223

(1) Clergy.
(2) Pallbearers.
(3) Firing party.
(4) Bugler.
b. All military elements participating in a
graveside service will be in position prior to the
arrival of the remains.
223. CREMATED REMAINS. a. When the remains
are cremated and the ashes interred with military
honors, the provisions of paragraphs 220, 221,
and 222 with necessary modifications will govern.
(1) For all phases of the funeral where the
cremated remains are carried by hand, one enlisted man will be detailed to carry the receptacle
containing the ashes. Four enlisted men will also
be detailed as flag bearers. When the receptacle
containing the ashes is carried from the conveyance into the chapel, from the chapel to the conveyance, or from the conveyance to the grave,
the flag bearers follow the receptacle, the flag being folded as prescribed in AR 260-10 and carried by the leading flag bearer on the right.
(2) When the receptacle has been placed on the
stand before the chancel of the chapel or when it
is placed in the conveyance, the flag, folded as prescribed above, is placed beside the receptacle. If
the caisson is equipped with a casket container for
the receptacle, the open flag is laid upon the container as prescribed for a casket.
(3) When no hearse or caisson is used, suitable
transportation will be provided for the receptacle
bearer and the flag bearers.
224

b. In cases where the remains are Conducted to
a crematory and the ashes are to be interred with
military honors at a later time, the ceremony consists only of the escort to the crematory. Arms
are presented as the remains are borne into the
crematory. The firing of volleys and the sounding of Taps are omitted. If the funeral ceremony
is held at the crematory and if no further military
honors are anticipated, the volleys may be fired,
and Taps may be sounded at the discretion of the
commanding officer.
224. CEREMONY PRIOR TO SHIPMENT OF REMAINS.

In cases when the remains of a deceased officer
or soldier are moved to a railway station or other
point for shipment to a distant place for interment or final disposition, funeral services, modified as necessary, may be carried out essentially as
prescribed in paragraphs 220, 221, and 222. If
no further military honors are anticipated at the
place of interment or final disposition, the volleys
may be fired, and Taps sounded at the discretion
of the commanding officer. If military honors are
anticipated at the place of final disposition, the firing of volleys and the sounding of Taps will be
omitted.
225. CANNON SALUTE. a. When the funeral of an

officer on the active or retired list whose grade
entitled him to a gun salute takes place at or near
'a military post, guns will be fired at regular intervals while the remains are being borne to the
225

place of interment or place of local disposition.
(See AR 600-30.) The first gun will be fired immediately after the procession is put in motion.
b. Immediately after the remains have been
lowered into the grave (upon completion of the
benediction), a salute corresponding to the grade
of the deceased will be fired (AR 600-25), followed by three salvos of artillery, guns firing simultaneously, or three volleys of musketry.
226. PARTICIPATION OF AVIATION. When aviation
participates in a military funeral, the participation will be so timed that airplanes will appear
over the procession while the remains are being
borne to the grave. (See AR 600-30.)
227. PARTICIPATION OF FRATERNAL OR PATRIOTIC
ORGANIZATIONS. a. At the request of the immediate family of the deceased or its representative,
fraternal or military organizations of which the
deceased .was a member may be permitted to take
part in the funeral services.
b. If the ritual is military or semimilitary in
nature, the rites will begin immediately upon the
conclusion of the Army religious service. If the
ritual contains the firing of three volleys of musketry and the sounding of Taps, the military firing party and bugler may be used. This sounding
of Taps will conclude the funeral services.
c. Nonmilitary rituals by fraternal organizations will be held at the conclusion of Taps. The
military escort will be marched away from the
site of the grave promptly and quietly at the termination of the military ceremonies.
226

228. DUTIES OF CHAPLAIN. The chaplain will take

position in front of the chapel prior to the arrival
of the remains. He precedes the casket when it is
borne from the conveyance into the chapel, from
the chapel to the conveyance, and from the conveyance to the grave. While the remains are being placed on the caisson or in the hearse, he
stands uncovered at the rear and to the side facing the caisson or hearse. When the casket has
been secured, he takes his position in front of the
caisson or hearse. If he is riding, his conveyance
will be. placed in position in front of the caisson
or hearse. If he is wearing vestments, he may, at
his discretion, proceed directly from the chancel
to the sacristy at the conclusion of the chapel service and divest, joining the procession just prior to
its movement from the chapel. When the procession is formed at the entrance to the cemetery or
other point and the chapel service is omitted, he
stands uncovered at the rear and to the side facing the caisson while the remains are being transferred from the hearse to the caisson. In cold or
inclement weather, he may remain covered except
when reading such parts of the service as require
that he be uncovered.
229. PRELIMINARY

ARRANGEMENTS.
The officer
detailed in charge of a military funeral, accompanied by the commander of the escort and the
superintendent of the cemetery or his representative, will visit the places involved and make careful arrangements prior to the time set for the funeral. Positions at the grave to be occupied by

227

various elements of the funeral, arrangements for
traffic control, etc., will be definitely determined.
230. FLORAL TRIBUTES. a. In the absence of a fu-

neral director, the officer in charge, assisted by
the chaplain and such details as may be required,
will cause all floral tributes to be properly arranged in the chapel and at the grave. He will
call upon the commanding officer for necessary
transportation for the prompt transfer of floral
tributes from the chapel to the grave. The conveyance bearing floral tributes will be loaded
promptly at the conclusion of the chapel service
and will precede the funeral procession, moving
as rapidly as practicable to the site of the grave.
The funeral procession will not move from the
chapel until the conveyance carrying floral tributes has cleared the escort.
b. The officer in charge will be responsible that
cards are removed and a record made giving a
brief description of the floral piece pertaining to
each card. The cards and record will be turned
over to a member of the family of the deceased
after completion of the funeral services.

Section VI. LOADING AND CEREMONIAL FIRING

231. GENERAL RULES. Except where otherwise in-

dicated, these rules will be applicable alike to the
U. S. rifle, caliber .30, Ml, and the U. S. rifle, caliber .30, M1903.
228

a. For ceremonial firing, the front rank only of
units larger than a squad executes the loading and
firing. A squad is always formed in line preliminary to such firing.
b. Rifles, caliber .30, M1, are loaded while
locked. Rifles, caliber .30, M1903, are loaded and
locked before any orders for firing are given. (See
par. 76.)
c. Except during firing, if rifles have been ordered loaded and locked, they are kept loaded and
locked without command until the command UNLOAD or 1. INSPECTION. 2. ARMS.
d. Automatic riflemen do not execute the ceremonial loadings and firings.
232. TO LOAD. a. The unit being in any forma-

tion, standing at a halt, the commands are: 1.
WITH BLANK'CARTRIDGES. 2. LOAD. At the command LOAD, each front rank rifleman faces half
right and carries his right foot 12 inches to the
right and to such position as will secure the greatest firmness and steadiness of the body. He raises
or lowers the rifle, and drops it into the left hand
at the balance, right hand at the small of the stock,
muzzle in the air at an angle of 450. (See fig.
61.) He then loads his rifle in the manner prescribed in the manual for that weapon.
b. For instruction in loading, the commands
are: 1. SIMULATE, 2. LOAD. At the command
LOAD, the movements of loading are executed except that the handling of cartridges is simulated.
When loading is simulated with the U. S. rifle,
caliber .30, M1903, the cut-off is turned down,
showing "off."
229

Figure 61. Ceremonial firing: position of LOAD.

233. TO UNLOAD.

Being in any formation, the

command is UNLOAD. At the command, the position of load is taken, and the rifle is unloaded in
the manner prescribed in the manual for the weapon. (See FM 23-5 and 23-10.) The chamber is
closed and ejected clips or cartridges are returned
to the belt. The rifle is then brought to the order.
234. TO FIRE BY VOLLEY. a. Being in firing forma-

tion with rifles loaded, the commands are: 1.
READY, 2. AIM, 3. SQUAD, 4. FIRE. For ceremon-

ial purposes, blank ammunition is used, and only
the front rank executes the commands. At the
command READY, take the position. of load, if
not already in that position. At the command
AIM, raise the rifle with both hands to a position
450 from the-horizontal, the rifle resting in the

palm of the left hand, the butt placed and held
firmly against the shoulder. The left hand is well
230

Figure 62. Ceremonial firing: position of FIRE.

under the rifle, grasping it at or in front of the balance, the right hand grasping the small of
the stock. The right elbow is at the height of the
shoulder. The right cheek is pressed firmly
against the stock as far forward as it can be
placed without straining. The left eye is closed,
the right eye looking over the rear sight. Press
the safety lock of the MI rifle to its forward position with the trigger finger. (See fig. 62.) At
the command FIRE, the trigger is squeezed quickly. The rifle is then lowered to the position of load
and reloaded.
b. To continue the firing, the commands are:
1. AIM, 2. SQUAD, 3. FIRE. Each command is executed as explained in a above.
c. To cease firing, the command is: CEASE
FIRING. At the command CEASE FIRING, firing ceases. Rifles not already at the position of
load are brought to that position.
231

Section VII.

MANUAL OF THE GUIDON

235. GENERAL. The guidon is a company identi-

fication flag. It is carried at ceremonies and at
other times when prescribed by the commander.
In camp, it is displayed at the company headquarters. In combat, it is with the company baggage.
The guidon bearer is a specially selected enlisted
man designated by the company commander.
The guidon is brought to
present arms, parade rest, and the order with the
company. At the command of execution of other
movements of the manual, it is brought to carry
guidon, unless already in that position. When the
bearer is executing the facings, side step, or
alinements, and when troops are marching, the
guidon is at the carry. (See par. 237.) When
marching at route step or at ease, it may be held
in either hand. When at the order, unless otherwise prescribed, it is brought to the carry at the
command of execution for marching in quick
time.
236. GENERAL RULES.

237. CARRY GUIDON. The staff of the guidon is
held vertically in the right hand, resting in the
hollow formed by the thumb and first finger, back
of the hand to the right, arm extending downward, staff resting in the hollow of the shoulder,
ferrule 6 inches from the ground as shown in
,figure 630.

232

O ORDERGUIDON
©)CARRY GUIDON

i

Figure '630 to

PRESENT GUIDON

©. Manual of thee
233

/l(ildon.

238. BEING AT CARRY GUIDON, TO EXECUTE ORDER

GUIDON. Allow the staff to slide through the
right hand until the ferrule is on the ground on
line with and touching the toe of the right shoe, at
which time the right hand regrasps the staff as
in the carry. (See fig. 63®.)
239. BEING AT ORDER GUIDON, TO EXECUTE CARRY

GUIDON. Grasp the staff with the left hand, at
the same time loosening the grip of the right hand
on the staff. Raise the guidon vertically with the
left hand, the staff sliding through the right hand
until the ferrule is 6 inches from the ground,
then regrasp the staff with the right hand. Cut
the left hand away smartly to the left side. (See
fig. 630.)
240. BEING AT ORDER GUIDON, TO EXECUTE PA-

RADE REST. Execute in a manner similar to parade rest with the rifle.
241. BEING AT CARRY OR ORDER GUIDON, TO
EXECUTE PRESENT GUIDON. a. Lower the guidon

straight to the front, extending the right arm
nearly horizontal until the lance, resting in the
pit of the right arm, is horizontal. (See fig. 63®).
This movement is executed at the command
ARMS of 1. PRESENT, 2. ARMS.

b. In passing in review, the guidon bearer executes eyes right and present guidon at the first
movement of the company commander's
234

hand

salute (or at the second movement of his saber
salute) and returns to front and carry guidon at
the last movement of the company commander's
salute.
242. BEING

AT PRESENT

GUIDON,

TO EXECUTE

CARRY GUIDON. Grasp the staff with the left
hand, palm up, at a point just beyond the right
hand. With the left hand carry the guidon up and
back to the position of carry guidon. At the same
time lower the right hand, retaining its grasp
on the staff, to the right side. Cut the left hand
away smartly to the left side.
243. BEING

AT PRESENT

GUIDON,

TO

EXECUTE

ORDER GUIDON. Execute as prescribed in paragraph 242 except that when the guidon is brought
to the vertical position, the staff is allowed, if
necessary, to slide through the right hand, the
left hand steadying the staff, until the guidon is
in the position of order guidon.
244. INDIVIDUAL SALUTE BY GUIDON BEARER. The

guidon being at the carry or the order, the salute
is given with the left hand in the same manner
as a rifle salute at order arms.
245. DOUBLE TIME. At double time, the guidon is
held diagonally across the body, the right hand
grasping the staff at the position used at the carry, right forearm horizontal, elbow near the body,
left hand grasping the staff opposite the junction
of the neck and left shoulder.
674344°-46-16

235

Section VIII.
MANUAL OF THE COLOR AND THE STANDARD
246. USE AND CARE OF COLORS AND STANDARDS.

The following rules will govern the use and care
of colors and standards:
a. The national and regimental flags carried
by dismounted organizations are called the "national color" and the "regimental color." The
term "color" implies the national color. The term
"colors" implies both the national color and regimental color.
b. The national and regimental flags carried by
mounted or motorized organizations are called the
"national standard" and the "regimental standard." The term "standard" implies the national
standard. The term "standards" implies both the
national standard and the regimental standard.
c. In garrison, the colors (standards), when
not in use, are kept at the office or quarters of the
commanding officer and are escorted thereto and
therefrom by the color (standard) guard. In
camp, the colors (standards), when not in use, are
displayed in front of the commanding officer's
tent. From reveille to retreat, when the weather
permits, they are displayed uncased. From retreat
to reveille and during inclement weather, they are
cased and placed in the commanding officer's office,
quarters, or tent.
d. Colors (standards) are cased when they are
furled and placed within protective covering.
e. Colors (standards) may be carried in any
formation in which two or more companies participate, and in escorts when ordered.
236

f. In separate organizations and commands entitled to colors (standards) and in battalions not
stationed with their regimental headquarters, the
colors (standards) are similarly cared for and
displayed at the office, quarters, or tent of the
commanding officer.
g. Battalions stationed with their regimental
headquarters do not display the colors (standards) of their organizations.
h. At regimental formations, the colors (standards) are posted with the regiment. When the
regimental formation is broken up, as at drill or
field exercises, the colors (standards) join the
regimental commander or are dismissed as directed.
247. SALUTES NOT RENDERED BY NATIONAL COLOR

(STANDARD). The national color (standard) renders no salute.
248. SALUTES BY REGIMENTAL COLOR (STANDARD).

a. The regimental color (standard) salutes in all
military ceremonies while the NationalAnthem or
To the Color is being played and when rendering
honors to its regimental commander or an individual of higher rank, but in no other case.
b. If marching, the regimental color (standard) salutes when 6 paces from the front of the
person entitled to the salute and resumes the carry when 6 paces beyond him.
c. In passing in review, the color (standard)
guard executes eyes right at the command of the
senior sergeant, who commands: 1. EYES, 2.
RIGHT and 1. READY, 2. FRONT at the saluting
237

distances prescribed in b above. When the grade
of the reviewing officer entitles him to the honor,
the regimental color (standard) salutes at the
command RIGHT and resumes the carry at the
command FRONT. (See a above.) The man on
the right flank does not execute eyes right. In
those organizations which do not execute eyes
right in passing in review, the standard guard
omits this compliment. Where applicable, the regimental standard salutes at the command of the
senior, who commands: 1. STANDARD, 2. SALUTE.
The return to the carry is made at the commands:
1. CARRY, 2. STANDARD. (See par. 248.)
249. COLOR GUARD. a. The color guard consists of
two sergeants and two experienced privates selected by the regimental commander, usually for long
and honorable service, as well as for their soldierly appearance. A position on the color guard is
one of honor. Members of the color guard when
not engaged in the performance of their duties,
join their organizations. The senior sergeant carries the national color and commands the color
guard. He gives the necessary commands for
movements and for rendering honors. The junior
sergeant carries the regimental color. The regimental color is always placed on the left of the
national color in whatever direction they face.
b. When battalions carry the color, a sergeant
acts as color bearer, and two experienced privates
selected by the battalion commander act as members of the color guard. The general rules prescribed for the regimental color guard are applicable to the battalion.
238

c. The color guard is formed and marched in
one rank at close interval, the color bearers in the
center. The color guard does not execute to the
rear march, about face, or fix bayonets. When
the unit to which it is attached moves to the rear
for short distances, the color guard, at the command of the senior sergeant, executes column
right (left) twice, marches to the new line, again
executes column right (left) twice, and halts in
its proper place.
d. At the command of the senior sergeant, the
privates of the color guard present arms or, if
armed with the pistol, execute the hand salute on
receiving and parting with the colors. After having parted with the colors, the guard is brought
to order arms by command of the senior remaining member who is placed as right man of the
guard.
e. Having received the colors, the senior sergeant conducts the guard to its proper position
before the color company, as outlined in f below.
Having parted with the colors, the guard is dismissed by the senior sergeant.
f. At drills and ceremonies in which the colors
are to participate, except escort of the color, the
colors are received by the color company prior to
the formation of the battalion with the following
ceremony: The color company is formed, its commander facing the front. The color guard, conducted by the senior sergeant, approaches from
the front and halts at a distance of 10 paces from
the company commander. The company commander then faces his company and brings it to
present arms, faces the colors and salutes, and
239

again faces his company and brings it to order
arms. The privates of the color guard execute
present and order arms with the color company.
The color guard is then marched by the senior sergeant directly to its post. It takes post on the left
when the company is in line or mass and in rear
when the company is in column. When the color
company joins the battalion, the color guard takes
its appropriate post in the battalion formation.
When the color battalion joins the regiment, the
color guard takes its appropriate post in the regimental formation.
g. When in formation, the color guard executes
at ease and rest with the color company, keeping
the pikes of the colors vertical.
h. When it is desired to dismiss the color guard
at the conclusion of a drill or ceremony in which
the colors have participated, it proceeds from its
position and halts 10 paces in front of and facing
the company commander of the color company.
The company presents arms as described in f
above. The color guard then escorts the colors to
the office, quarters, or tent of the commanding
officer. The color guard is dismissed from organizations smaller than a company (funeral escort)
in a similar manner.
i. In campaign, prior to engagement of the
regiment, the colors are stored as directed by the
commanding officer.
250. POSITION OF THE COLOR AT THE ORDER. At

the order, the heel of the pike rests on the ground
on line with and touching the toe of the right
shoe. The right hand, at a convenient place on
240

OIt

(

Figure 64. Manual of the color.
© Position of the carry.
() Position of the order.
'® Position of color salute.

241

the pike, clasps it with the thumb, back of the
hand to the right, and holds it in a vertical position. (See fig. 640.)
251. POSITION OF THE COLOR AT THE CARRY. At

the carry, the heel of the pike rests in the socket
of the sling; the right hand grasps the pike at the
height of the shoulder; the pike is inclined slightly to the front. (See fig. 640.)
252. POSITION OF THE COLOR AT PARADE REST.

a. Parade rest with the color is similar to parade
rest with the rifle, except that the pike is kept
vertical.
b. The order is resumed at the command ATTENTION.
c. The order and parade rest are executed with
the color company.
253. POSITION OF REGIMENTAL COLOR AT COLOR

SALUTE. This position is assumed from the carry
by slipping the right hand up the pike to the
height of the eye, then lowering the pike by
straightening the arm to the front. When the regimental color salutes with troops who execute
present arms from the order, the position of carry is assumed at the command ARMS and the color salute then executed. (See fig. 640.)
254. POSITION OF THE COLORS DURING THE MAN-

UAL OF ARMS. The colors remain at the order
during the execution of the manual of arms.
242

CHAPTER 12
COMBAT FORMATIONS

Figure 65. Remember as you train: "the battle is
the payoff."

Section I. GENERAL

255. GENERAL. a. The drill and exercises described in this chapter are intended to develop
an efficient method for the tactical handling and
control of small units in battle. The formations
are designed specifically for the rifle squad and
243

the rifle platoon (T/O & E 7-17); however, they
may be adapted to any type unit. When operating
as an element of a platoon, the squad employs the
,principles described herein to accomplish assigned
missions in the same manner as when operating
alone. Interpretation and adaptation should be
based on the fundamental principle that all
ground combat units, including the squad, employ
security, base of fire, and maneuver. Combat
training is divided into combat drill and combat
exercises.
b. Combat drill comprises the preliminary instruction necessary to teach the squad and platoon
basic formations, movements, and control.
c. Combat exercises are conducted in the field
for the primary purpose of teaching the squad
and platoon to adapt the formations and movements previously learned in combat drill to varied
terrain. Prior to instruction in combat exercises,
the soldier should be taught to be aggressive, to
fire, to lie down, to crawl, and to make the best use
of ground and cover. (See FM 21-75, 23-5, 23-15,
23-25, and 23-30.) It includes training in simple
tactical maneuvers of the squad and platoon in
offensive and defensive action, withdrawal, reorganization, and consolidation of objectives captured.
Section II. COMBAT DRILL: RIFLE SQUAD
256. GENERAL. The following general rules are
prescribed:
a. Instruction should be conducted at attention,
stressing discipline, and precision.
244

b. Initial training is conducted at a walk, on
open terrain, such as a parade ground, at reduced
distances. As soon as individuals understand the
formations, the training is speeded up progressively until it is being done at a run.
c. For drill purposes, the normal interval and
distance between men is approximately 5 paces;
between teams, approximately 10 paces. This interval and distance may be varied.
d. In this phase of instruction, the squad leader
will habitually give oral commands accompanied
by appropriate arm-and-hand signals. (See ch.
13.)
e. Movements, halts, and manual of arms are
executed on oral command of the squad leader.
f. Duties should be rotated frequently in order
to promote interest and teach all individuals the
entire drill.
g. In executing any movement, the rifle or
automatic rifle is carried at port arms. When
halted, individuals come to order arms and remain at attention.
h. During all drills, the squad leader places
himself where he can best exercise control.
i. Drills are conducted in silence except for the
commands of leaders.
257. COMPOSITION. The rifle squad is composed
of the squad leader, No. 1; assistant squad leader,
No. 12; and th~ree teams as follows:
a. ABLE (scouts), composed of No. 2 (team
leader.) and No. 3.
b. BAKER (base of fire), composed of No. 4
(team leader) and Nos. 5 and 6.
245

c. CHARLIE (maneuvering element), composed of No. 7 (team leader) and Nos. 8, 9, 10,
and 11.
d. Succession of command within the squad
and within each team will be designated in advance. When deployed for combat, the base of
fire is normally commanded by the assistant squad
leader, No. 12, and the maneuver element by the
squad leader, No. 1.
258. FORMATION. a. Being in any formation, the
rifle squad is trained to assume the following formations by oral command and arm-and-hand signals:
(1) Squad column. (See fig. 66.)
(2) As skirmishers, right (left). (See fig. 67.)
b. To deploy the squad in any combat drill formation, the ABLE team moves forward 10 paces;
and halts. The other teams move to their relative
positions in the formation.
c. To form squad column, the squad leader commands: 1. SQUAD COLUMN, 2. MARCH. At the

command MARCH individuals form teams and
assume the formation shown in figure 66.
d. To form as skirmishers, the squad leader
commands: 1. AS SKIRMISHES, RIGHT, 2 MARCH.
At the command MARCH individuals form teams
and assume the formation shown in figure 67. To
form as skirmishers with the CHARLIE team on
the left, the commands are: 1. AS SKIRMISHERS,
LEFT, 2. MARCH.

246

A®

4k
~~~~D

-t;~~I

Figure 66. Squad column.

247

A

tan|t

Figure 67. Squad as skirmishers, right.

259. MOVEMENT. After the squad has been
trained to assume formations promptly, training
in movement is initiated. The squad is trained to
move in any direction and to change from one deployed formation to another upon command and
signal of the squad leader. Training progresses
until a dispersed and disorganized squad is able
to assume a combat formation promptly upon a
command or signal indicating the direction of the
enemy and the desired formation.
a. Being in any formation at a halt, to move
the squad forward, the squad leader gives the
command: 1. FORWARD, 2. MARCH and signals:
FORWARD. At the command MARCH the squad
248

moves forward, basing its' rate and direction of
movement upon that of the ABLE team to maintain the squad formation.
b. Being in any formation, to change direction
and/or formation, the squad leader gives the command and signal for the new direction (formation). At the command of execution, the ABLE
team moves to its new position. The remainder
of the squad forms on the ABLE team as a base.
(See figs. 68 and 69.)
c. To halt the squad, the squad leader commands and signals: HALT or DOWN.
(1) At the command HALT, the squad halts.
(2) At the command DOWN, members of the
squad assume firing positions.
d. To assemble the deployed squad, the squad
leader commands and signals: ASSEMBLE and
moves to the point where he desires the squad to
form. The squad 'assembles at a run in rear of
the squad leader, forming in squad column. (:See
fig. 66.)
260. OBSERVATION AND CONTROL.

The squad is

responsible for observation to the front, to the
flanks, and to the rear at all times.
a. When halted or in firing positions, individuals face and observe as indicated in figures 66
and 67.
b. The squad being at as skirmishers, left,
numbers 11 and 6 observe to their respective
flanks; numbers 10 and 5 observe to the rear.
Relative positions of individuals in the teams remain unchanged.
249

c. When the squad is in motion, the responsibility for frequent observation by individuals
within their assigned sector is the same as when
firing or at a halt.

Figure 68. Squad column to as skirmishers, right.

250

d. Team leaders observe and control their respective teams, and maintain visual contact with
the squad leader.

Figure 69. As skirmishers, right, to squad column.
251
674344°-46-17
251
674344°--46--17

Sectibn III. COMBAT DRILL: RIFLE PLATOON
261. GENERAL. The rules for platoon combat drill
are, in general, the same as for squad combat drill.
The platoon deploys with sufficient interval and/or
distance between squads to permit maneuver.
The normal interval and distance between squads
is about 75 yards. This interval and distance may
be varied. The arm-and-hand signal PLATOON
need not precede arm-and-hand signals for the
platoon, it being assumed that signals given by
the platoon leader are intended for the platoon unless preceded by the signal SQUAD. As with the
squad, oral commands, accompanied by appropriate arm-and-hand signals, will be employed in
this phase of instruction.
262. COMPOSITION. a. For combat drill, rifle
squads within the rifle platoon are referred to by
their numerical designation: 1st squad, 2d squad,
3d squad.
b. Succession of command within the rifle platoon is normally the platoon leader, the platoon
sergeant, the platoon guide, and squad leaders in
the order designated by the platoon leader.
263. FORMATIONS. a. Being in any formation, the
rifle platoon is trained to assume the following
basic formations:
(1) Platoon column. (See fig. 700 and 0.)
(2) Platoon-line. (See fig. 700.)
(3) Platoon vee. -(See fig. 700.)
(4) Platoon wedge. (See fig. 700.)
(5) Antiaircraft formation. (See fig. 71.)
252

(

"LINE

C)

'VEE:

O

WEDGE.

O COLUMN.

COLUMN. ECHELON RIGHT.

Figure 70(

to ®. Platoon formations.

253

b. Unless otherwise designated by the platoon
leader the leading or right-leading squad is always the base squad except that when three
squads are abreast, the center squad becomes the
base squad. Within each platoon formation,
squads base their position and regulate their direction and rate of advance on the base squad.
c. Being in march column (fig. 36) to deploy
the platoon into any combat drill formation, the
base squad of the march formation moves at a
run and deploys as the base squad of the deployed
formation. The other squads move at a run to
their positions in the formation.
d. To form platoon column, the platoon leader
commands and signals: 1. PLATOON COLUMN, 2.
MARCH. At the command MARCH, the platoon
forms as shown in figure 700. This formation
may be varied as drill progresses by giving the
commands and signals: 1. PLATOON COLUMN,
ECHELON RIGHT (LEFT), 2. MARCH.
(See fig.
70®.)
e. To form platoon line, the platoon leader commands and signals: 1. PLATOON LINE, 2. MARCH.
At the command MARCH, the platoon forms as
shown in figure 700.
f. To form platoon vee, the platoon leader commands and signals: 1. PLATOON VEE, 2. MARCH.
At the command MARCH, the platoon forms as
shown in figure 700.
g. To form platoon wedge, the platoon commander commands and signals: 1. PLATOON
WEDGE, 2. MARCH. At the command MARCH,
the platoon forms as shown in figure 700.
254

h. The antiaircraft formation is adopted from
march formation at the announcement or signal
PLANE (S) FRONT (RIGHT, LEFT, REAR).
(See par. 288.)

/ Q° /

Q

Q t

\

CZ

Fiure 71. Antiaircraft formation, platoon.

Figure 71. A255tiaircraft formation, platoon.

255

(1) Being in column of twos (the usual march
formation on roads), the right column deploys to
the right at top speed and the left column similarly
deploys to the left (see fig. 71). Upon halting,
men assume the antiaircraft firing position, facing the approaching planes, and prepare to fire on
order of the platoon leader.
(2) From column of threes the same method
is used by the right and left squads. Even numbered men of the center squad deploy to the right
and odd numbered men to the left.
(3) Being deployed to meet an air attack, squad
columns may be formed and the march continued
off the road, if desired.

264. MOVEMENT. After the platoon has been
trained to assume the basic formations promptly
on command, it is trained to move and change
from one deployed formation to another. (See
fig. 72( through @.) The rules for moving and
halting the platoon are, in general, the same as
for the squad. (See par. 259.) In changing from
one deployed formation to another, the base squad
sometimes changes in order to conform to the
rule set forth in paragraph 263b. This change
takes place upon completion of the movement.
For instance, in changing from platoon wedge to
platoon vee, the leading squad remains the base
squad until the vee formation is completed. (See
fig. 72®.) The right leading squad then becomes
the base squad.
256

O COLUMN.TO LINE.

i

VEE TO COLUMN.

Figure 72. Changing platoon formnations.

257

O

(

COLUMN TO WEDGE.

WEDGE TO COLUMN.

:'E

O LINE TO VEE.

O VEE TO LINE.
Figure 72. Changing platoon formations-Continued.

258

()

(

(

LLNETO WEDGE

O

VEE TO WEDGE.

WEDGE TO LINE,

WEDGE TO VEE

Figure 72. Changing platoon formations-Continued.
259

265. OBSERVATION AND CONTROL. a. The responsibility of each squad within the platoon for observation to the front, flanks, and rear remains
unchanged in platoon combat drill. (See par.
260.)
b. Squad leaders observe and control their respective squads and maintain visual contact with
the platoon leader.
c. The platoon leader places himself in such a
position as best to control the platoon.
d. The platoon sergeant assists the platoon
leader in the control of the platoon and assumes
command in his absence. He takes position where
he can best perform these duties.
e. The platoon guide normally is to the rear of
the platoon, and assists in control.
f. One messenger accompanies the platoon
leader. The other should be available for.use by
the company commander.
Section IV. COMBAT EXERCISES: RIFLE SQUAD
266. GENERAL. After individuals and units have
learned the formations and movements of combat drill, they begin training in combat exercises.
267. CONDUCT OF INSTRUCTION. In general, instruction is conducted in the same manner as in
combat drill, with the following exceptions:
a. Instruction is conducted at ease, stressing
aggressiveness and realism.
b. Owing to the wide area covered by a squad,
the squad leader will have to depend largely upon
signals, instead of voice, in giving commands.
260

c. The squad leader prescribes the initial formation of the unit. Thereafter team leaders may
vary the formation of their own teams in order
to make the best use of ground, cover, and concealment.
d. Fixed distances and intervals are not prescribed. Troops are taught to vary distances between individuals and units depending on visibility and ease of control. Straight lines are avoided.
e. An enemy position or direction is indicated
by the unit leader before the signal COMMENCE
FIRING and before ordering a maneuver or an
assault. The enemy position may be represented
by flags, firing of blank cartridges or other noisemaking devices. The use of well-trained personnel
to represent the enemy adds realism to the exercises.
f. For duties of individuals in observation and
control, see paragraph 260.
268. ADVANCED

TRAINING.

During

advanced

training, movements are practiced at night, as
well as in thick woods, and supporting weapons
are employed with the platoon.
269. FUNCTIONS OF TEAMS.

a. The ABLE team,

directed by the squad leader, usually moves in
advance of the squad when approaching the enemy. It finds the enemy and points out his position to the squad leader. After the fire fight begins, the squad leader employs the scouts whereever they can best assist the advance of the squad.
He may attach them to BAKER or to CHARLIE
for this purpose.
261

b. The BAKER team maneuvers forward with
the rest of the squad in the attack until it can
occupy a suitable firing position. On orders of the
squad leader it then usually remains in position
as a base of fire to fix the enemy in place and
cover the riflemen as they advance and make the
assault. If its fire becomes masked by advancing
riflemen, it promptly moves forward to a new firing position.
c. The CHARLIE team is the maneuvering element of the squad.
270. DUTIES

OF SQUAD LEADER AND ASSISTANT

SQUAD LEADER. a. The squad leader commands
the squad.
(1) When approaching the enemy, he directs
the advance of the squad and changes its formation in accordance with the situation so as to have
the greatest amount of protection from enemy observation and fire. He personally directs the
movement of the ABLE team.
(2) As soon as the action of the scouts has located the enemy position, he makes a hasty visual
reconnaissance and estimate of the situation to
determine(a) The best route of approach to the enemy
position.
(b) The most favorable position from which a
coordinated attack can be launched.
(c) The location from which BAKER can best
support the maneuver and attack by fire.
(3) By commands or signals he then directs
BAKER to the selected location. He then directs
CHARLIE to its attack position, covered by the
262

base of fire. When all men are in position, the
squad leader launches the coordinated attack. He
usually places himself where he can best control
CHARLIE. He controls the fire of the squad and
does not enter personally into the fire fight except
in an emergency.
(4) When a position has been captured, he reorganizes the squad to continue the attack, or
supervises the establishment of a hasty defense
of the squad area of responsibility.
b. The assistant squad leader usually commands
BAKER during the fire fight' and is second-incommand of the squad. During the approach, he
usually moves at the rear of the squad to prevent
straggling. When a position has been captured
he supervises the placing of BAKER to cover the
reorganization or in establishing the hasty defense of the area as directed by the squad leader.
271. MOVEMENT. a. General. Squad combat exer-

cises are begun by teaching individuals and
groups the methods of moving while under fire or
when close to the enemy. The squad may move
as a unit, by teams, or by individuals. The rate
of movement may be by rushes, by walking, or by
crawling.
b. Movement as a unit. Being in any formation,

to move the entire squad, the squad leader commands or signals: 1. PREPARE TO MOVE, 2. FOLLOW ME.

(1) At PREPARE TO MOVE, all members of the
squad get ready to move promptly and watch the
squad leader for further signals.
263

(2) At FOLLOW ME, they move at the same
rate and in the same direction as the squad leader
and, unless otherwise directed, maintain their
same relative formation.
(3) The squad executes HALT or DOWN on
command or signal of the squad leader or by following his example.
c. Movement by teams. (1) Being in any forma-

tion, the squad leader may move one or more
teams by(a) Designating the team or teams to move
and the order in which they are to move.
(b) Designating the distance and direction
they are to move.
(c) Designating the rate of movement.
(2) Team leaders then move their teams in accordance with the squad leader's orders. To move
the team as a unit, the team leader commands or
signals: 1. PREPARE TO MOVE, 2. FOLLOW ME.
The team executes this movement in the same
manner as the squad.
d. Movement

by individuals or small groups.

(1) Whenever the team leader is ordered to move
his team, its is usually his responsibility to decide
whether to move the team as a unit, by twos or
threes, or by individuals. Being in any formation,
he may move individuals or small groups by designating:
(a) The individuals or groups to move.
(b) The distance and direction they are to
move.

(c) The rate of movement.
(2) If moving by rushes, men execute each
rush on command of the team leader.
264

272. FIRE AND MANEUVER.

a. General. When the

squad has learned how to move when under fire or
when close to the enemy, it is taught to combine
fire with maneuver. Whenever it is exposed to
simulated small-arms fire, all movement must be
covered by fire. Each group or individual in movement is covered by the fire of the remainder of the
squad. If targets cannot be seen, individuals direct their fire at the most likely places of concealment. During combat exercises, firing is- simulated.
b. Target designation.

Leaders may designate

targets by voice. When this is not practicable,
they are designated by signaling the range and
pointing in the direction of the target.
c. Fire control. (1) To open fire, the squad or
team leader first designates the target by the
most convenient method, and signals: COMMENCE FIRING. All men set their sights at the
designated range and fire at the designated target
or at its locality.
(2) To increase or decrease the rate of fire, the
squad or team leader signals: FIRE FASTER
(SLOWER). When part of the squad is advancing exposed to enemy observation and fire, the
remaining men automatically increase their rate
of fire.
d. Fire during movement.

Unless otherwise di-

rected, individuals or groups ordered to move
during firing suspend firing at PREPARE TO MOVE

or other preparatory signal for movement. As
soon as the move is completed, they resume firing
immediately without further orders.
265

e. Assault fire. Assault fire is fire delivered by
individuals while advancing at a walk or run. At
a walk, rifles are usually fired from the shoulder;
at a run, from the hip. Being in any formation,
to move the squad or team forward employing assault fire, the squad or team leader signals: 1.
ASSAULT FIRE, 2. FOLLOW ME. At ASSAULT FIRE,

individuals prepare to move forward, fix bayonets
if they are not already fixed, and watch the leader
for further signals. At FOLLOW ME, all members of the squad^or team move forward, regulating their movements and actions on the leader.
273. ATTACK.

a. General.

After the squad has

learned the methods of fire and maneuver, it is
given instructions in the attack. When attacking,
the squad leader moves the squad toward the enemy by fire and maneuver, or by stealth if a covered route is available. The squad leader launches
a coordinated attack when the enemy position has
been located and the squad is in position to engage it by fire at close range or at such other time
as may be directed by the platoon leader. The
squad may attack frontally, employing all three
teams in the same direction, or it may envelop
the right or left flank of the enemy position with
one or more teams. Usually CHARLIE is the
maneuvering element, and BAKER provides the
base of fire, ABLE being attached to either BAKER or CHARLIE.
b. Attack orders. Attack orders may be given by
signal. They indicate the composition and location
of the base of fire, for example, 1. BAKER, 2.
THERE (pointing to location), and the direction
266

of the attack, for example, FORWARD or ENVELOP
RIGHT (LEFT).

The maneuvering element is com-

posed of all members of the squad who have not
been designated as a part of the base of fire.
The maneuvering element moves in the direction
indicated in the attack order. The squad leader,
will usually be in a position where he can control
this element. Frequently, he will lead it personally. The following are examples of attack orders:
(1) Frontal attack. 1. BAKER (BAKER AND
ABLE), 2. THERE (pointing), 3. FORWARD.
(2) Envelopment. 1. BAKER (BAKER AND ABLE),
2. THERE, 3. ENVELOP RIGHT.
c. Conduct of attack. (1) Frontal attack. At
THERE, the designated team(s) moves to the indicated location and establishes a base of fire. As
soon as the base of fire is established, the maneuvering element moves forward in the attack. The
base of fire remains in position until its fire is
masked, at which time it advances to a new position.
(2) Envelopment. At THERE, the designated
team(s) establishes a base of fire as for a frontal
attack. Fire is automatically shifted to the right
or left as the attack progresses in order not to
endanger the attacking riflemen. As soon as the
base of fire is established, the maneuvering element selects its own route, or follows the squad
leader, to a position from which it can attack the
flank of the enemy position. The squad leader may
designate in his order a time or signal for launch674344°-46--18
267
267

ing the attack. Usually, it is launched when the
enveloping team is in position and signals by
opening fire that it is moving in on the enemy
(See fig. 73.)
(3) Assault. The assault, the final phase of the
attack, is nothing more than an increase in the
fire and movement to permit all or part of the attacking troops to close with the enemy. The manner of movement in the assault-assault fire, team
rushes, or individual rushes-depends entirely
upon the volume and effectiveness of enemy smallarms fire, which should be realistically represented. During the assault, all available fire power
within the squad must be employed, rifles and
automatic rifles being fired at rapid rates, and
hand grenades being used whenever practicable.
As soon as the objective is assaulted and the fire
of the base of fire has been masked, the team forming the base of fire displaces forward to assist the
remainder of the squad in establishing a hasty
defense, or in continuing the attack.
274. HASTY DEFENSE.

a. After capturing an ob-

jective the squad continues the attack or establishes a hasty defense to hold the objective against
enemy counterattack. If the squad is acting alone,
the area to be defended will be selected by the
squad leader, and teams will be disposed and plans
made to provide all-around defense of the area.
If the squad is operating as part of a rifle platoon,
the squad will move to the area designated by the
platoon leader, and teams will be disposed to defend the sector assigned to the squad.
268

(D ADVANCING IN THE A\TTACK.

I\IL

0

IN POSITION FOR ATTACK;
iBIIKFI

f)

CHR

IE

ATTACK AND ASSAULT.

S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
O IMMEDIATE DEFENSE.
Figure 73. Envelop right, squad.

269

_WlHI

b. To establish a hasty defense, the squad
leader commands or signals: 1. ABLE, 2. THERE,
3. BAKER, 4. THERE, 5. CHARLIE, 6. THERE. At
the signal 1. ABLE, 2. THERE, the ABLE team
moves in the direction indicated by the squad
leader a sufficient distance to provide security for
the remainder of the squad. BAKER, in the meantime, should have come up without command, and
occupied a temporary position until further directed by the squad leader. At the signals 3.
BAKER,

4. THERE,

5. CHARLIE, 6. THERE;

BAKER and CHARLIE move to the areas indicated and under supervision of team leaders select
exact firing positions for each individual. Unless
otherwise ordered, individuals dig foxholes.
275. REORGANIZATION. Reorganization, that is,
replacement of key individuals who become casualties, and redistribution of personnel, ammunition,
and weapons, is an automatic procedure which
takes place during all phases of combat. Instruction in reorganization will be accomplished during combat exercises by simulating casualties and
expenditure of ammunition.
276. WITHDRAWAL. Fire and maneuver in the
squad are used to the same extent during the withdrawal as during the conduct of an attack. The
guiding principle in withdrawal technique is first
to disengage the least involved of the ABLE,
BAKER, CHARLIE teams, using this element to
establish a base of fire to cover the withdrawal of
the others. Rearward displacement is accomplished by fire and maneuver until the action has
270

been broken off. For further discussion of the
principles and technique of withdrawal, see FM
7-10 and 7-20.

Section V. COMBAT EXERCISES: RIFLE PLATOON

277. GENERAL. The tactical principles and sequence of instruction for platoon combat exercises
are, in general, the same as for the squad. One or
two squads may be used as the base of fire with
the remainder forming the maneuvering element.
278. CONDUCT OF INSTRUCTION.

For conduct of

instruction, see paragraph 267.
279. DUTIES OF PLATOON LEADER AND PLATOON

SERGEANT. The duties of the platoon leader and
platoon sergeant correspond, on a higher level,
with those of the squad leader and assistant squad
leader, except that the platoon sergeant does not
normally command a specific element as does the
assistant squad leader in the case of the BAKER
team.
280. SECURITY. Whenever the front or flanks of
the platoon are exposed, the platoon leader sends
out security elements to protect the platoon from
surprise. The security elements may be the scouts
of one or more squads, or a patrol. Security elements watch the platoon leader or the leader of
the nearest squad for signals.
271

a. General. The rifle platoon attacks in the same manner as the squad. The platoon advances toward the enemy by fire and maneuver, or by stealth, until in position to make a
coordinated attack. It may attack frontally, employing all three squads in the same direction, or
it may envelop the right (left) flank of the enemy
position with one or more squads.
b. Attack orders. The platoon leader orders or
signals the composition and location of the base of
fire, for example, 1. FIRST (SECOND, THIRD) SQUAD,
2. THERE (pointing to location), and the direction of attack, for example, FORWARD or EN281. ATTACK.

VELOP RIGHT (LEFT).

The maneuvering element is

composed of the squads which have not been designated as a part of the base of fire. The maneuvering element moves in the direction indicated in the
attack order. The platoon leader will usually take
a position where he can control this element. Frequently, he will lead it personally. At any time
during the attack, the platoon leader may, by signal, change the designation of the base of fire and
the maneuvering element if the change offers a
better chance of success. The following are examples of attack orders:
(1) Frontal attack. 1. FIRST AND SECOND
SQUADS, 2 THERE (pointing), 3. FORWARD.
(2) Envelopment. 1. FIRST SQUAD, 2. THERE

(pointing), 3. ENVELOP RIGHT.
c. Conduct of attack.

(1)

Frontal attack. At

THERE, the designated squad(s) moves to the
indicated location and establishes a base of fire.
272

As soon as the base of fire is established, the
squad(s) designated as the maneuvering element
move forward in the attack. The base of fire moves
forward when its fire is masked.
(2) Envelopment. At THERE, the designated
squad (s) establishes a base of fire at the place indicated. As soon as the base of fire is established,
the squad (s) designated as the maneuvering element, under the command of the platoon leader,
platoon sergeant, or platoon guide, move to a
position from which they can attack the flank of
the enemy. The platoon leader may designate in
his order a time or signal for launching the coordinated attack. Usually it is launched when the
enveloping force is in position and signals by
opening fire that it is moving in on the enemy.
As the attack of the maneuvering element progresses, the base of fire shifts its fire to the right
or left so as not to endanger attacking riflemen,
and advances when its fire is masked. (See fig. 74.)
(3) Assault. The manner of making the assault,
as with the squad, depends upon the volume and
effectiveness of enemy small-arms fire. Assault
fire, if used, is begun on signals of the platoon
leader.
Note. In combat, the assault may be started without
signal of the platoon leader, in which case all men and
units in the vicinity cooperate wholeheartedly.

As soon as the objective is. assaulted and the fire
of the base of fire has been masked, the squad (s)
forming the base of fire displaces forward to
assist the remainder of the platoon in establishing
a hasty defense, or in continuing the attack.
273

282. HASTY DEFENSE.

The rifle platoon, having

captured an objective, continues the attack or
establishes a hasty defense to hold the objective
against enemy counterattack. Hasty defense must,
at least initially, be of such a nature as to provide
immediate all-around security for the platoon.
Squads proceed to their assigned sectors and prepare them for defense. The platoon leader, assisted by the platoon sergeant and platoon guide,
makes necessary changes.
283. REORGANIZATION.

Reorganization

of

the

platoon- is similar to that described for the squad
in paragraph 275.
284. WITHDRAWAL. a. General.

When forced to

execute a withdrawal, the rifle platoon does so by
stealth, and unobserved by the enemy, if possible.
Sometimes, however, it must withdraw under,
enemy observation or fire. When this is the case,
a portion of the platoon covers the withdrawal of
the rest. When the latter element has established
itself in its new position, it in turn covers the
withdrawal of the first. In combat exercises, two
methods are used.
b. First method. (1) The platoon being in any
combat formation, the platoon leader signals to
the first (second, third) squad, PREPARE TO MOVE.

He instructs the platoon sergeant to have the
other squads follow in turn.
(2) The platoon leader then signals the first
squad, FOLLOW ME, and leads it to the new posi274

O ADVANCING IN THE ATTACK.

®

IN POSITION FOR ATTACK.

0

(

IMMEDIATE

ATTACK AND ASSAULT.

DEFENSE.

Figure 74. Envelop right, platoon.

275

tion. The second and third squads fire on the
enemy until the first squad has established a base
of fire to cover their withdrawal.
(3) At the proper time (usually when the first
squad opens fire from the new position), the platoon sergeant orders the second squad to withdraw
under cover of the fire of the first and third
squads. The platoon sergeant remains with the
third squad. When the second squad has opened
fire from the rear position, the platoon sergeant
leads the third squad to the rear, care being taken
not to mask the fire of squads on the new position.
(4) When fire from the new position is not
opened by the first squad, the platoon sergeant is
signaled to withdraw the second and third squads.
A flare or other suitable signal is used.
c. Alternate method. (1) The platoon being in
any combat formation, the platoon leader signals
to all squads, 1. ABLE AND CHARLIE, 2 PREPARE TO
MOVE. The platoon leader then signals, 3. FOLLOW ME, and leads the squads (less BAKER
teams) to the new position.
(2) The BAKER teams, under the platoon sergeant, remain in position and cover by fire the
withdrawal of the remainder of the platoon. The
platoon leader establishes a base of fire to cover
the withdrawal of the BAKER teams. When the
new base of fire is established, the BAKER teams
withdraw as described in the first method above.

276

CHAPTER 13
SIGNALS

Section I. GENERAL

285. PURPOSE. Signals are used for transmitting
essential commands and warnings under conditions rendering verbal commands or warnings inadequate.
286. KINDS. The kinds of signals ordinarily used
are sound and visual. Touch signals may also be
used, as in tanks, or during night operations.
a. Sound signals include signals by bugles,
whistles, sirens, vehicle horns, or other sound devices such as fire alarms, gas alarms (FM 21-40),
or the firing of weapons. Special sound signals
may be used on night patrols as prescribed by the
patrol leader or higher authority. (See FM 21-75.)
b. Visual signals include signals made by using
the arms and hands, flags, lights, panels, and
pyrotechnics. Pyrotechnic signals are usually prescribed in field orders. Tanks may use flag signals.
(See FM 17-5.) Military police use arm-and-hand
and light signals to direct traffic. (See FM 19-5.)
Motor vehicle operator's signals, and signals for
use in motor marches or drill with vehicles, are
published in TM 21-305. Additional signals may
277

be improvised and used appropriately. Visual
signals, in the restricted sense used in this chapter, do not include semaphore flag codes, blinker
light codes, and panel codes.
287. GENERAL RULES. a. Subordinate commanders
repeat signals or give appropriate commands to
their units whenever necessary to insure prompt
and correct execution.
b. Unless the signal is preparatory, execution
of the movement indicated commences as soon as
the signal is completed and understood.
288. AIR OR TANK WARNING. The following
signals will be used by observers of all arms
and services in transmitting warning of the approach or presence of enemy aircraft, parachute
troops, or mechanized vehicles:
a. Three long blasts of a whistle, vehicular
horn, klaxon, or siren repeated several times;
three equally spaced shots with rifle or pistol ;* or
three short bursts of fire. from machine gun or
other automatic weapon.
b. In daylight, the individual giving the signal
points in the direction of the danger; at night, the
signal will be supplemented by voice warning to
indicate the direction of danger.
*Also alamn in case of fire.
sion. (See FlM 26-5.)

-

Sentinel fires three shots in rapid succes

278

Section II. WHISTLE SIGNALS

289. GENERAL. Whistle signals will be confined
to ATTENTION TO ORDERS, CEASE FIRING,
and AIR OR TANK WARNING. Whistles will be
sparingly used, and with due regard to the possibility that they may convey a warning to the
enemy.
290. ATTENTION. Sound a short blast of the whistle. The signal is used to fix the attention of troops
or of their commanders and leaders preparatory
to giving commands, orders, or other signals.
291. CEASE FIRING. Sound a long blast of the
whistle. This signal will be verified at once by an
arm-and-hand signal or by other means.
292. AIR OR TANK WARNING. Three long blasts,

repeated several times. (See par. 288.)

Section III. GENERAL ARM-AND-HAND SIGNALS

293. GENERAL. If a movement is to be executed

by a particular subordinate unit or units of
a command, a signal designating the unit or units
will be given before the signal for the movement.
Unless otherwise indicated, when giving the signal, face the unit or persons for whom the signal
is intended.
279

3

4

ATTENTION.

HALT.

Q

READY'
REPORT WHEN READY;
I AM READY.
'PREPARE TO MOVE.

: TO THE
FORWARD
....
RIGHT (LEFT):
TO THE REAR.

TAKE COVER.

DOUBLE TIME:
INCREASE SPEED:

DOWN.

RUSH.

Figure 75. Arm-and-hand signals.

280

294. ATTENTION.

Move hand above head rapidly

from side to side. (See fig. 750.)
295. READY? REPORT WHEN READY: I AM READY:
PREPARE TO MOVE. Extend the arm toward the

leader or individual for whom the signal is intended, hand raised, fingers extended and joined,
palm toward the leader. (See fig. 750.)
296. FORWARD: TO THE RIGHT (LEFT): TO THE REAR.

Face and move in the desired direction of march;
at the same time extend the hand vertically to the
full extent of the arm, palm to the front, and
lower the arm and hand in the direction of movement until horizontal. (See Fig. 75®.)
297. HALT. Thrust the hand upward vertically to
the full extent of the arm and hold it in that position until the signal is understood. (See fig. 750.)
298. DOWN; TAKE COVER. Turn toward the unit or

group and raise the hand, palm down, in front of
the elbow, forearm horizontal; thrust the hand
and forearm downward about 12 inches and return to original position. (See fig. 75(.)
299. DOUBLE TIME; INCREASE SPEED; RUSH. Carry

the hand to the shoulder, fist closed; rapidly
,thrust the fist upward vertically to the full extent
of the arm and back to the shoulder several times.
(See fig. 750.)
281

300. QUICK TIME; DECREASE SPEED; WALK (if already at a faster gait). Raise the elbow to a position

above and to the right (left) of the shoulder and
extend the forearm to the left (right), hand above
the head, palm to the front. (See fig. 75®.)

301. CHANGE DIRECTION; SHIFT FIRE.

Carry the

hand that is on the side toward the new direction
across the body to the opposite shoulder and, with
the palm turned in the direction of shift, swing
the forearm in a horizontal arc, extending the arm
and hand to point in the new direction. (See fig.
75®.)
302. ACTION; ASSAULT FIRE. Thrust the fist several

times in the direction toward which it is desired
to go into action. (See fig. 75(.)
303. OUT OF ACTION. Strike the closed fist of one

hand rapidly several times against the open palm
of the other. (See fig. 75®.)
304. JOIN ME; FOLLOW ME. Point toward the per-

son(s) desired, and beckon them to you.
fig. 75g.)

(See

305. COVER OUR ADVANCE. Repeatedly strike top

of helmet with open hand. (See fig. 75@.)
282

QUICK TIME:;
DECREASE SPEED:
WALK.

OUT OF ACTION.

CHANGE DIRECTION:.
SHIFT FIRE.

©

JOIN ME:
FOLLOW ME

(

ACTION;
ASSAULT

FIRE

COVER

OUR

ADVANCE.

Figure 75. Arm-and-hand signals-Continued.
674344°-46-19

283

306. ABLE. Hold rifle horizontal in front of body,
both arms fully extended. (See fig. 75@.)
307. BAKER. Hold rifle vertical in front of body,
both arms fully extended, muzzle of rifle down.
(See fig. 75®.)
308. CHARLIE. Hold rifle vertical in front of body,
both arms fully extended, muzzle of rifle up. (See
fig. 75@.)
309. SQUAD. Extend one arm toward the squad
leader, palm of the hand down; distinctly move
the hand up and down several times, holding the
arm steady. (See fig. 75(.)
310. SECTION. Extend one arm toward the section leader, palm of the hand down, and describe
large vertical circles. (See fig. 75@.)

284

(

ABLE

(

BAKER

CHARLIE.

1I

Q

SQUAD.
Figure 75.

SECTION.

4rm-and-hLand signals-Continued.

285

311. PLATOON. Extend both arms toward the
leader(s) for whom the signal is intended and describe large Vertical circles. (See fig. 75@.)
312. COLUMN. Extend arm horizontally straight
to front, palm down; then drop it smartly to the
side. (See fig. 75®.)
313. SKIRMISHERS; FORM LINE.

Raise both arms

laterally until horizontal, arms and hands extended, palms down. (See fig. 75®.)
314. SKIRMISHERS RIGHT (LEFT).

Raise both arms

laterally until horizontal; swing arm, on side
toward which CHARLIE team(s) is to move, upward until vertical and back immediately to the
horizontal position; repeat movement several
times; hold the other arm steadily in the horizontal position until signal is completed. (See fig.
750.)

286

is

(B

PLATOON.

COLUMN.

®

SKIRMISHERS: FORM LINE.

(

SKIRMISHERS (IN DIRECTION
OF MOVING ARM).

Figure 75. Arm-and-hand signals-Continued.

287

315. WEDGE. Extend both arms downward and
to the side at an angle of 450 below the horizontal.

(See fig. 75@.)
316. VEE. Extend both arms upward and to the
side at an angle of 450 above the horizontal. (See

fig. 75@.)
317. ECHELON RIGHT (LEFT).

Extend the arm, on

the side toward which the column is to be echeloned, upward to the side at an angle of 450 above

the horizontal. (See fig. 75®.)
318. ENVELOP RIGHT (LEFT):-SOUAD (TEAM) RIGHT

(LEFT). Face toward the enemy and raise the right
(left) arm, fist closed; swing the arm to the front
in a hooking fashion. Repeat motion until signal
is understood. (See fig. 75@.)
319. ASSEMBLE. Raise the hand vertically to the
full extent of the arm, fingers extended and joined,
and describe large horizontal circles with the hand
and arm. (See fig. 75®.)
320. ENEMY IN SIGHT. Hold the rifle horizontal
above the head with the arms extended. (See fig.
75@.)
321. RANGE OR BATTLE SIGHT. Extended the arm

fully toward the leader or men for whom the signal is intended, with the fist closed. This is the
signal that the range is to be announced. If no
other signal follows, it means that the setting will
288

WEDGE.
a

ENVELOP (IN DIRECTION'
OF MOVING ARM).

(

VEE.

(

©

ASSEMBLE.

ECHELON (IN DIRECTION
OF RAISED ARM).

E

ENEMY IN SIGHT.

Figure 75. Arm-and-hand signals-Continued.
289

be battle sight. If a range -other than battle sight
is desired, open the fist, and expose one finger for
each 100 yards of range. (See fig. 758.)
322. COMMENCE FIRING. Extend the arm and
hand waist high in front of the body to their full
extent, palm of the hand down; move them several
times through a wide horizontal arc. (See fig.
75@.)
323. CHANGE ELEVATION. Indicate the complete
new range. (See par. 321.)
324. ELEVATE; DEPRESS. Extend one arm toward
the gunner(s) concerned, with the palm of the
hand toward the ground. Move the hand in a short
upward (downward) movement by flexing it at
the wrist, exposing one finger for each mil the
gun is to be elevated (depressed). (See fig. 75®.)
325. FIRE ONE ROUND. Face the gunner for whom
the signal is intended, and extend one arm above
the head. Cut the arm sharply downward. (See
fig. 75@.)
326. FIRE FASTER. Execute rapidly the signal
COMMENCE FIRING. For machine guns, the signal indicates a change to the next higher rate of
fire.
327. FIRE SLOWER. Execute slowly the signal
COMMENCE FIRING. For machine guns, the
signal indicates a change to the next lower rate
of fire.
290

RANGE OR
BATTLE SIGHT.

i

3

FIRE ONE ROUND.

©

0

COMMENCE
FIRING.

ELEVATE:
_ DEPRESS.

CEASE

0

FIRING.

FIX BAYONETS.

Figure 75. Arm-and-hand signals-Continued.

291

328. CEASE FIRING. Raise the hand in front of
the forehead, palm to the front, and swing it and
the forearm up and down several times in front
of the face. (See fig. 75{.)
329. FIX BAYONETS. Simulate the movement of
the right hand in removing a bayonet from its
scabbard and fixing it on a rifle. (See fig. 75{.)
330. MOUNT; LOAD TRUCKS; ON CARTS. Extend
the arm horizontally to the side, palm up, and
wave it upward several times. (See fig. 75®.)
331. DISMOUNT; OFF CARTS; UNLOAD TRUCKS. Extend the arm horizontally to the side, palm down,
and wave it downward several times. (See fig.

750.)

(

MOUNT: LOAD TRUCKS:
ON CARTS.

)

DISMOUNT: UNLOAD
TRUCKS: OFF'CARTS.

Figure 75. Arm-and-hand signals-Continued.
292

APPENDIX
MANUAL OF THE SABER

1. GENERAL. a. For garrison service in time of
peace, officers and warrant officers may be
equipped with the officer's saber. The saber is not
carried in the field.
b. When the wearer is dismounted, the scabbard is carried on the left side attached to the
belt by the saber chain and hooked to the belt by
means of the upper ring, guard of the saber to
the rear.
c. When the wearer is mounted, the scabbard
is carried in the saber carrier attached to the off
side of the cantle of the saddle, guard of the saber
to the rear.
d. Officers of a commander's staff draw and return saber with him.
e. The position of order saber is assumed by
dismounted officers when in formation at attention, except as otherwise prescribed in f, g, h, and
i below.
f. The position of carry saber is assumed(1) To give commands.
(2) To change position at quick time.
(3) When officially addressing or when officially addressed by another officer, if saber is
drawn.
(4) Preparatoryto returning saber.
(5) At the preparatory command for and while
marching in quick time.

293

g. The position of present saber is assumed(1) To salute with the saber.
(2) In executing present arms when the unit is
presented to the colors, to any person, or when the
National Anthem (To the Color) is played.
(3) In executing eyes right (left) when marching past a reviewing officer or stand, except that
officers in the interior of a mass formation do
not execute present saber.
h. The position of port saber is assumed when
marching in double time.
i. The position of the saber at parade rest is
assumed by dismounted officers whenever the unit
executes parade rest.
i. Mounted officers do not execute order saber,
port saber, or parade rest.
k. The manual of the saber is executed without
command except for saber drill.
I. The saber may be carried in the scabbard
while marching at ease or at route step.
2. DRAW SABER. a. The commands

are: 1. DRAW,
2. SABER.
(1) At the command DRAW, unhook the saber
with the thumb and first two fingers of the left
hand, thumb on the end of the hook, fingers lifting
the upper ring. Grasp the scabbard with the left
hand at the upper band and bring the hilt of the
saber a little forward, guard down, blade inclined
downward to the rear at an angle of 450. Grasp
the hilt in the right hand, press the left hand
against the left thigh and draw the saber 6 inches
from the scabbard.
294

(2) At the command SABER, draw the saber
smartly, raising the arm to its full extent to the
right front at an angle of 450 with the horizontal,
edge down, in prolongation of the arm. Make a
slight pause and bring the saber down to the position of carry saber. (See par. 3.) At the same
time, hook up the scabbard with the thumb and
first two fingers of the left hand, thumb through
the upper ring, fingers supporting it. Drop the
left hand by the side. (See fig. 76(D.)
b. When mounted, at the command DRAW, in-

sert the hand through the saber knot, and execute
the same movements as when dismounted, except
that the left hand is not used. At the command
SABER, execute the same movements as when dismounted, except that at carry saber, mounted, the
right hand rests on the thigh.
c. Members of dismounted organizations engage the wrist in the saber knot only when publishing written orders, calling the roll, etc.
3. CARRY SABER. The saber is held vertically, the
back of the blade against the point of the shoulder,
edge to the front, arm nearly extended, elbow
back, the grip clasped easily between the first and
second fingers and the thumb, the third and fourth
fingers back of the grip. (See fig. 76(.)
4. PRESENT SABER. a. The commands are: 1. PRESENT, 2 SABER.
(1) At the command PRESENT, raise and move

the saber to the front, base of the hilt as high as
and 3 inches in front of the chin, edge to the left,
point 6 inches farther to the front than the hilt,
295

thumb extended on the left of the grip, all fingers
grasping the grip.

(2) At the command SABER, lower the saber
smartly until the point is in prolongation of the
right foot and near the ground, edge to the left,
hand by the side, thumb on the left of the grip,
arm extended. If marching, the arms swing
naturally. (See fig. 76®.)
b. When mounted, execute at the same command and in the same manner as when dismounted, except that the point of the saber is
lowered to the level and a little to the front and
right of the stirrup. The right hand is slightly in
rear of the thigh.
c. Present saber is executed when 6 paces from
the person saluted or at the point of nearest approach if more than 6 paces. The second position
is held until the person saluted has passed or the
salute has been returned. In passing in review,
salutes are rendered as prescribed in paragraph
207.
d. From present saber the position of carry is
assumed in two counts in the cadence of quick
time. The first count brings the saber to the order,
the second count to the carry.

5. RETURN

SABER. a. When practicable, return

saber should be executed at the 'halt. The commands are: 1. RETURN, 2. SABER. At the command RETURN, carry the right hand opposite to,
and 6 inches in front of, the left shoulder, saber
vertical, edge to the left. At the same time unhook
296

II~~~~~~~~I

G

DRAW SABER.

G

0

PRESENT SABER.

Figure 76. Saber manual.

297

CARRY SABER.

and lower the scabbard with the left hand and
grasp it at the upper band. At the command
SABER, drop the point to the rear by turning
the right hand as shown in figure 760, or in the
most convenient manner as the design of the saber
permits. Turn the head slightly to the left, fixing
the eyes on the opening of the scabbard, raise the
right hand sufficiently to insert the blade and return it. Turn the head to the front and drop the
right hand by the side. Hook up the scabbard with
the left hand and drop the left hand by the side.
b. When mounted, at the command RETURN,
carry the hand to a position the height of and 6
inches in front of the right shoulder, the blade
vertical, edge to the front, the grip grasped so that
the pommel rests in the hollow of the hand. At
the command SABER, turn the head and eyes
toward the scabbard, raise the right hand vertically to the full extent of the arm, lower the
blade, and replace the saber in the scabbard. Disengage the wrist from the saber knot and resume
the position of attention.

The commands are: 1. ORDER,
2. SABER.
a. Being at carry saber, at the command
SABER, drop the point of the saber directly to
the front, point near the ground, edge down,
thumb along the back of the grip.
b. Being at present saber, at the command SABER, bring the saber to the position of order by
turning the hand to the left. (See fig. 760.)
6. ORDER SABER.

298

I'^1

'.x

0

0

RETURN SABER.

0

PARADE

ORDER SABER.

0

REST.

PORT SABER.

Figure 76. Saber manual-Continued.
674344'-46-20

299

7. PARADE REST. Being at order saber, the com-

mands are: 1. PARADE, 2 REST. At the command
REST, move the left foot 12 inches to the left of

the right foot, keeping the legs straight, so that
the weight of the body rests equally on both feet.
Place the left hand behind the body resting in the
small of the back, palm to the rear. (See fig. 76®.)
At the command ATTENTION, resume the position of attention.
The commands are: 1. PORT, 2.
SABER. At the command SABER, the saber is
carried diagonally across the chest, edge to the
front, right hand at the height of the waist and
in front of the right hip, left hand steadying the
scabbard. (See fig. 760.)
8. PORT SABER.

300

INDEX

Paragraphs

ABLE ..................................
257
Adjutant:
Band posted by ........................
189
Battalion formed by ...................
191
Parade, duties in .......................
210
Regimental formations, duties in .........
196
Review, duties in .......................
202
Adjutant's call ........
191,196
Alinement ..............................
123,160
'Anthem, National ...............
27, 204, 208, 210

Page

245
170
173
199
179
184
173, 179
118, 149
28,188,196,
199
252

Antiaircraft formation, platoon ............
263
Arms, manual of. (See Manual of arms.)
Assault ...............................
273,281
266,272
Assemble ..............................
130, 319
122,288
At ease:
Marching .............................
74
82
Standing .............................
58
66
Attached units ......................
189, 196, 209' 170, 179, 199
Attack ...............................
273,281
266,272
Attention ...............................
57, 96
66, 97
Automatic rifle ..........................
100
102
Back step ...............................
BAKER ................................
Band:
Escort of the color ......................
Funeral .............................
Inspection ............................
Marching in review .....................
Parade ...............................
Retreat .......................
Sounding honors ......................
Base of fire. (See BAKER.)
301

:.......

69
257

78
245

213
219-230
206
207
210
204
205

206
215
190
193
199
188
189

Paragraphs

Page

Battalion:
Dismiss ...............................
194
176
Formations ......................
186, 189-194
168, 170
Parade ...............................
209, 210
199
Bayonet:
Fix .....................
98, 329
100, 292
General rules .........................
76
83
Unfix .........
99.10.................
99
102
Cadence:
Command voice ........................
50
61
Counting ..............................
54
64
Manual of arms ........................
77
85
Carbine, manual of .....................
112-117
108
Ceremonies .............................
198-234
182
Chain of command .........
......
257, 262
245, 252
Change step ............................
73
82
Chaplain .......................
2......219,228
215,227
CHARLIE ..............................
257
245
Clergy .................................
219-224
215
Close, to ................................
124
119
Coast Guard ............................
31
32
Colors:
Carry .................................
251
242
Decoration' of .........................
208
196
Escort of ............................
209,213
199, 206
Honors to .........
....................
28
29
National. (See Flag of the United States.)
Order ...............................
250, 254
240, 242
Parade rest ...........................
252
242
Salute with ....................
204, 248, 253 188,237,242
Use and care ..........................
246
236
Color guard ....................
207,208,218,249 193,196,213,
238
Column right (half right, left, half left) ...

Combat drill:
Rifle squad ...........................
Rifle platoon ..........................
Combat exercises:
Advanced training ...................

302
\

129

256-260
261-265
268

122

-

244
252
261

Paragraphs

Page

273, 281
Attack ...............................
267
Conduct of instruction ..................
274, 282
Defense, hasty .......................
265, 270, 279
Duties of leaders ..................
272, 277
Fire and maneuver ....................
269
Function of teams ......................
271
Movement .............................
275, 283
Reorganization .......................
Rifle platoon .........................
277-284
266-276
Rifle squad ...........................
260, 280
Security .............................
276, 284
Withdrawal ..........................
................... 255--284
Combat formations .
46-51
Command voice ...........................
Commands:
258, 259, 263
Combat drill .....................
General ...............................
45
52-54
Mass .................................
Regimental or battalion commander's .... 187, 196
40
Revoke, to ............................
154-166
Company ...............................
Continue the march ......................
155
Count off ...............................
122
19-33
Courtesy, military .......................

266, 272
260
268, 274
260, 262, 271
265, 271
261
263
270, 274
271
260
249,271
270, 274
243
57

208
274, 282
36 '
42
6
39, 64, 71
123

196
268, 274
48
54
5
52, 76, 79
118

Decorations, presentation .................
Defense, hasty ..........................
Definitions ..............................
Direction, partial change ..................
Discipline ...............................
Double time ...........................
Dress ..................................
Enveloping movement ....................
Escort:
Color, of the ...........................
Funeral .............................
Honor ................................
Extend .................................
Eyes right (left) .........................
303

246, 248, 252
56
62
169, 179
53
142
142
118
20

273

266

213
219-230
214
125
59

206
215
208
119
68

Paragraphs

Face in marching ....................
70, 71, 157
Facings ................................
60
Fall in ..............................
76, 119, 175
Fall out ................................
58
Field music ........................
204, 210, 213
Fire and maneuver .....................
272, 277
Firing, ceremonial ......................
231-234
Firing party ............................
220
Flag of the United States:
Funerals .............................
220, 223
Honors to ............................
28
Rules for display .......................
33
Vessel of war .................
........
32
Flank, to march to ............
70, 72, 126, 128, 148
Formations:
Battalion ........................
Combat drill .........................
Company ...........................
Mass ........................
Platoon ....................
Regiment .......................
Review ................................
Section ................................
Squad ...........................
Vehicle ..........................
Forward march .........................
Funerals ...............................

79, 148
68
83, 116, 160
66
188, 199, 206
265, 271
228
217
217, 224
29
37
35
79, 80, 119,
121, 136

186, 189, 210 168, 170, 199
258, 263
246, 252
155-166
142
162-165, 192, 193 150, 175, 176
136, 139, 141, 263 127, 130, 132,
252
186, 195, 211 168, 178, 204
202
184
137
128
118, 119, 258 115, 116, 246
169, 172-174
156, 158
63, 180
76, 163
219-230
215

Guests at ceremonies .....................
203
Guide:
Location in marching ..................
142
Platoon ..............................
138, 265
Rules .................................
41
Guides on line .........
........
1.91, 192
Guidon:
Bearer ......................
.... 154, 210,235

304

Page

187
132
129, 260
53
173, 175
142,199,232

Paragraphs

Page

Manual of ...........................
Post, drill and ceremonies ...............

235-245
154

232
142

Half step ...............................
Halt:
Marching forward .....................
Marching to the oblique .................
Vehicles ..............................
Honors .............................

67

78

65
127
181
28, 205, 214

77
120
163
29, 189, 208

49
Inflection, command voice .................
Inspection:
Battalion .............................
218
216
Company .............................
217
Equipment, personal and field...........
General ...............................
215
Review ...............................
206
Inspection arms. (See Manual of arms.)
.... 31
Insignia ............................
Interval:
256
Combat drill ..........................
119, 144
Close ................................
119, 145
Normal ..............................
Take .................................
130

61

244
116, 132
116, 133
122

2-18

2

Leadership, military .....................

Maneuvering element. (See CHARLIE.)
Manual of arms:
Automatic rifle .......................
100
77
By the numbers ........................
112-117
Carbine .............................
77
Rules governing .......................
Inspection arms ............
76, 86, 100, 109, 115
171
Men in motorized units .................
76, 78, 80, 85, 90, 94
Order arms ................
58, 95, 100

Parade rest ........................

305

213
209
211
209
190
32

102
85
108
85
83, 91, 102,
106, 112
157
83, 87, 91,
96, 97
66, 97, 102

Paragraphs

Pistol ...............................
Port arms .................

101-111
89, 93, 100, 114, 117

Present arms ...................

61, 84, 100, 101

Rifle .................................
Shoulder arms:
Left ................................
Right ............................
Sling arms ...................

77-99
92
88, 91, 94
81, 100, 113, 116

Stack arms ...........................
Take arms ............................
Trail arms ............................
Unsling arms ............
Mark time ..............................
March in review ..........................
Mass. (See Commands; Formations.)
Morale ..........................
Motor vehicles. (See Vehicles.)
Navy, United States ......................
Numbering .............................
Order, attack .......................
Parades ................................
Pistol, manual of ........................
Platoon:
Combat drill .........................
Dismiss ...............................
Form .................................
Formations ......................
Posts ...................................
Quick time ..............................
Rank, relative ...........................

306

131
132
79
.............. 82
66
207

Page

104
94, 97, 102,
110, 113
72, 91, 102,
104
85
96
94, 96, 97
89, 102, 108,
112
123
126
87
89
77
193

54
........

30, 31
43, 189

30, 32
54, 170

:.. 273, 281

266, 272

209-212
101-111

199
104

261-265
252
140
130
139
130
136, 138, 141 127, 129, 132
44
54
63, 64

76

30

30

Ranks:
Close .................................
Open .................................
Reporting to officer .......................
Regiment:
Dismiss ...............................
Form .................................
Formations ..................

Paragraphs

Page

151
150
22

137
136
24

Parade .............................
Reorganization ..........................
Rests ...................................
Retreat ..............................
Review ................................
Rifle, manual of .........................

197
181
196
179
186, 195, 209, 211 168, 178, 199,
204
209, 211
199, 204
283
274
66
58
204, 209
188, 199
182
198-208
85
77-99

Saber, manual of .........................
Salute .........................

App.
20-25, 61, 97, 225

Scouts (See ABLE.)
..
137
Section .........
............
Sergeant:
154, 156, 159
First ............................
138,265
Platoon ..............................
152
Shelter tents, to form for ..................
Ships. (See Vessel, war.)
Signals (see also Figure 63):
293-331
Arm-and-hand, general ................
288, 292
Danger, air or mechanized ..............
285-288
General ..............................
.
..... 289-292
2............
Whistle ......
258
....
......
Skirmishers ............
Squad:
123
........
Aline .........................
256-260
Combat drill .........................
121
..................
Dismiss .............
119
Form .................................
118-135
Formations and movements .............
118
............
............
General .

307

293
21, 72, 100,
225
128
142, 146, 148
129, 260
137

279
278, 279
277
279
246
118
244
118
116
115
115

Paragraphs

Page

Staff, battalion and regimental ............
Standard. (See Color.)
Steps ..............................
Symbols, key ............................

188

170

67-69, 73
118

78, 82
115

Titles ..................................
Turn, mass .............................

30
164, 184

30
152, 165

29

30

Vee, platoon ..............................
263
Vehicles:
Form at .............................
175
Formations ... ..................
169, 172-174
Load .................................
176
Personnel ....
.....
......... 171, 175, 176
Rules for drill with .... 167-169, 172-174, 178-185
Start and stop engines ..................
179
Unload ...............................
177
Vessel, war .: ...........................
32
Volley, to fire by .........................
234

252

Uncovering

.............................

Wedge, platoon ..........................
Withdrawal .........
...........

308

263
276, 284

160
156, 158
161
157, 160, 161
156, 158, 162
163
161
35
230
252
270, 274

