FM 22-103

N

N

tns-

LEAOERSHIP and COMMAND
at SENIOR LEVELS

s s FM 22-100

31 -Ausust qci

JJi!-

0

REGRADED "APPROVED FOR PUBLIC RELEASE, SEE LAST TWO PAGES
OF THIS PDF

JUNE 1987
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION 01st11but1on authonzed to U S Government ag1mc1 sonly
b " Cause ot copynght cons1d ration Thi d 1 rnuna11on wa made on 1SMay1987 Otht>t
roques1 for this ®~um 1 will t> r I rr d to Comm. nd:1n1. U S Army Combinf'd Arms

i

.\
[.·.

!I

\
What Junior-Level Leaders Have a Right
to Expect from Senior-Level Leaders.
General Bruce C. Clarke

1.

That their honest errors be pointed out but be underwritten at least
once in the interests of developing initiative and leadership.

2.

To be responsible for and be allowed to develop their own units with
only the essential guidance from above.

3.

A helpful attitude toward their problems.

4.

Loyalty.

5.

That they not be subjected to the needling of unproductive "statistics"
competitions between like units.

6.

The best in commandership.

7.

That the needs of their units be anticipated and provided for.

8.

To be kept oriented as to the missions and situation in the unit above.

9.

A well-thought-out program of training, work, and recreation.

10.

To receive timely, clear-cut, and positive orders and decisions which
are not constantly changed.

11.

That the integrity of their tactical units be maintained in assigning
essential tasks.

12.

That their success be measured by the overall ability of a unit to
perform its whole mission and not by the performance of one or two
factors.

13.

That good works by their units be recognized and rewarded in such
ways as to motivate the greatest number to do well and to seek further
improvement.

\
I

\\

Field Manual
No 22-103

I

FM 22-103
HEADQUARTERS
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
Washington, DC, 21 June 1987

LEADERSHIP AND COMMAND
AT SENIOR LEVELS
Preface
This manual establishes a doctrinal framework for leadership
and command at senior levels within the context of the tactical
and operational levels of war discussed in FM 100-5. It builds
on the premise of FM 100-5 that leadership is the most essential
element of combat power. Further, it is tied to the overarching
fundamentals of the military profession contained in FM 100-1.
It recognizes that once a force is engaged in battle, superior combat power derives from the courage of soldiers, the excellence of
their training, and the quality of their leadership.
With the adoption of AirLand Battle doctrine, it became clear
that a doctrinal statement addressing the challenge of leadership
and command at large-unit levels was needed. More than ever,,
execution of doctrine depends on skillful and competent senior
leaders.
FM 22-103 is a statement of principles, illustrated by examples, providing a framework for action wherein a senior leader
can fit his own leadership style. It fills three needs. First, it
serves as an instructional text for developing professionals aspiring to leadership and command at senior levels. Second, it is a
ready resource for those already serving in senior positions.
Finally, it serves as a common reference point for the many
ongoing initiatives related to leadership and command at largeunit level. No specific level or grade of leadership is specified or
intended. If leaders see themselves in this manual, then it is
appropriate for them. Moreover, this manual applies to the Total
Army and should be used by all components.

i

While FM 22-103 flows directly from FM 100-1 and Air Land
Battle doctrine, it is complementary to the principles of war and
FM 22-100. Whereas FM 22-100 is primarily a manual for developing direct leadership skills, this manual recognizes the complexity of leadership and command at senior levels and the separate
need to address indirect leadership concepts and fundamentals
critical to building organizational teams. It does discuss direct
leadership skills applying at senior levels, but its focus is on
presenting a useful framework for effective indirect leadership.
The manual stresses that senior leaders are skilled professionals
possessing a vision of where the organization must go, who
communicate that vision through example, teaching, and their
own tactical and technical proficiency, and who are tough enough
to generate the organizational leadership power to win.
The proponent of this publication is HQ TRADOC. Users are
encouraged to recommend changes improving this manual to
Commander, U.S. Army Combined Arms Center, ATTN: ATZLSWA-DL, Fort Leavenworth KS 66027-6900, using DA Form 2028
(Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms).
Unless otherwise stated, whenever the masculine gender is
used, both men and women are included.
This publication contains copyrighted material.

.

(
·.

ii

..

J HN A. WICKHAM, JR.
G neral, United States Army
hief of Staff

Contents
Page

Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
Chapter 1.

The Challenge
Background .............................................. . 1

Requirements ........................................... 2
Characteristics ........................... ~ ............. . 2
Tasks ............................................... ; . :3
Leadership Defined ...................................... . 3
Peace and War: .......................................... .4
The Structure· .................... , .................. , .... .4
Summary ................................................ .6
Chapter 2.

Leadership Vision
·Operational Concept ............. : ...................... ; .7
Senior Leaders and Commanders ......................... .9

Attributes .............•............................... .9
Perspectives .......................................... 11
Imperatives ... ·.................•.................•.... 1 3
Implementing the Vision ................................ 15
Summary ............................................... 16
Chapter 3.

Professional Ethics
Foundations .......... ·.................................. 17
Ethical Responsibilities .................................. 18
Be a Role Model ...................................... 18

Promote Ethical Development .......................... 20
Develop and Sustain the Ethical Climate ............... 21
Values, Ethics, and Will ................................. 22
The Payoff: Moral Toughness ............................ 22
Strength .............................................. 23
Confidence ........................................... 23
Consistency .......................................... 24
Summary ............................................... 25
Chapter 4.

Professional Skills
Skills and Success ...................................... 26
The Skills .......................................... : ... 27

Conceptual ........................................... 28
Competency .......................................... 31
Communications ...................................... 34
Skills and Genius ....................................... 38
Summary ............................................... 39

iii

Chapter 5.

Command Processes
The Dilemma ........................................... 40
The Processes .......................................... 41
Command and Control ................................ 41
Leadership and Management .......................... 42
Integration of the Processes ............................. 45
Summary ................................................ 47

Chapter 6.

The Organization
Overview ............................................... 48
Characteristics .......................................... 49
Adaptive .............................................. 49
Cohesive ............................................. 49
Resilient .............................................. 50
The Components ........................................ 51
The Structure .......................................... 51
The Led .............................................. 54
The Leaders .......................................... 56
Building Teams ......................................... 60
Setting the Stage ..................................... 61
Establishing the Conditions ............................ 61
Summary ............................................... 66

Chapter 7.

Senior Leaders in Action
Studies of Professional Excellence ....................... 67
Demands for Action ..................................... 73
Establishing Purpose ............................... ~ .. 75
Providing Direction .................................... 76
Generating Motivation ................................ 78
Summary ............................................... 80

Appendixes
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
References

Principles of Leadership ............................ 81
Professional Development .......................... 84
Characteristics of Healthy
and Unhealthy Organizations ....................... 85
Assessment ........................................ 88
Time Management ................................. 90
Setting Goals and Priorities ........................ 91

......................................................... 92

Index ............................................................... 97

iv

CHAPTER 1

The Challenge

BACKGROUND
The changing face of war in the late
twentieth century poses special challenges.
Two major factors impact on the Army and
on its senior leadership. First, nations hostile to democracy have increasing capacity
to wage war. That capacity requires the
Army to prepare for the entire spectrum
of conflict-from nuclear war to counterterrorist action. Second, the continued application of technology to warfighting, coupled
with changes in threat capabilities and
posture, has altered dramatically the human
demands of com bat.
Any consideration of senior leadership
and command on the AirLand battlefield,
therefore, flows from the imperatives and
guidelines contained in FM 100-1 and
FM 100-5. They establish the tactical and
operational leadership demands to meet

our constitutional obligations. Further, they
provide the conceptual base from which the
requirements, characteristics, and tasks of
effective senior leadership and comand flow.
The precepts contained in FM 100-1 provide the ethical and constitutional basis for
our leadership actions, establishing the
moral guides for what senior leaders must
be prepared to do. Our operations doctrine
contained in FM 100-5 establishes leadership
as the most essential element of combat
power. It states that the skill and courage
of leaders at both the tactical and operational levels of war are critical to success.
Moreover, it correctly reminds us that the
human dimension of war will be decisive
in future battles and campaigns just as it
has been in the past.

1

CHAPTER 1

WARFARE IS A
GLOBAL, JOINT, AND
COMBINED AFFAIR

The more mechanical become the
weapons with which we fight, the
less mechanical must be the spirit
which controls them.

2

REQUIREMENTS
Success on the AirLand battlefield will
depend on the combined effect of many
teams, units, and organizations. Warfare is
a global, joint, and combined affair. No
longer will purely Army operations be the
norm. Communications will cut across service lines. Commanders and staffs who
exhibit extended perspectives and adaptability will be the rule rather than the
exception. Simplicity in orders and actions
will be essential. Most important, soldiers
and units will be- led and sustained in a
manner that ensures they are physically
and psychologically capable of responding.
These requirements have profound implications at senior levels. At these echelons,
leadership and command is no longer simply a direct influence process. It also includes a well-formed ability to exercise
indirect organizational leadership. Success
depends on creating and maintaining cohesive teams, units, and organizations using
both direct and indirect modes of leadership.
On the shoulders of those at senior levels
rests responsibility for the future of the
Army: for training and developing younger
leaders; for outthinking, outleading, and defeating any potential enemy; for combating
the potentially inhibiting effect of battlefield
fear, stress, and chaos; and for transmitting
the correct moral and ethical precepts.

CHARACTERISTICS
To meet the requirements of the Air Land
battlefield and deal with its challenges,
senior leaders and commanders possess
special characteristics. First, they are able
rapidl~ to assess the situation and form
their battlefield vision. The tempo of
operations will be such that the unexpected
and novel will be the norm. Second, those
at senior levels have a high tolerance for
ambiguity and uncertainty. Regardless of
technology or the skill of subordinates,
they will never know everything about the

CHAPTER 1

enemy because the opponent will use his
own capabilities to preclude that from happening. Therefore, senior leaders have an
unshakable belief in their own technical and
tactical competence. Finally, they have a
capability to learn rapidly since the free
will of the opponent will ensure that most
situations and circumstances appear different from what is expected. ·
Combined, these characteristics provide
a capability to make timely decisions. Technology acts to compress and shorten
response times. Senior leaders and commanders need to use all of their skill, intellect, and knowledge to deal with influencing
decision situations as opposed to individual
decisions. In this way they maintain perspective, are able to supply the required
professional judgment, and enhance their
ability to communicate within the organi-

zation, sustaining an appreciation of the
limits time imposes on their actions.

TASKS
Leadership and command at senior levels
blends vision, communication, and craft to
achieve proper command effect. Without
vision, leaders and commanders become
mechanics; without an ability to communicate, they are impotent; and wit~out craft
they are dreamers. Successful semor leaders
and commanders establish a clear personal
vision or concept of what needs to be accomplished. Then, they communicate the concept
to their organizations so that the desired
intent is clearly understood. Finally, they
apply their craft by being tough enough
to ensure that their organization executes
the actions necessary to make the vision
a reality and achieve the desired result. (See
Appendix A, Principles of Leadership.)

LEADERSHIP DEFINED
Leadership and command at senior levels
is the art of direct and indirect influence
and the skill of creating the conditions for
sustained organizational success to achieve
the desired result. Its purpose is to produce
decisive results at large-unit level. Leadership and command at senior levels is the
wellspring from which all sustained unit
actions flow. Only the coordinated action
of many units combined over time ensures
success in battles and campaigns.

focus becomes one of building teams and
exerting influence through subordinate commanders and staffs. In turn, their view of
military concerns broaden and they devote
energy to forecasting, planning, and shaping
future organizational activities. As they
move to the highest and most complex
positions of responsibility, the ability
to conceptualize events and create the means
to deal with future requirements becomes critical.

Senior-level leadership is a coat of many
colors. As one rises in rank and responsibility, organizational complexity increases.
Direct leadership skills, important to all
leaders, continue to provide the basis for
leading soldiers face-to-face. But, with increasing complexity and responsibility, ad"
ditional leadership skills are required. Senior
leaders or, commanders add to their direct
leadership competencies an understanding
of organizational structure and climate
needed to effect indirect leadership. Their

Unlike junior leaders, senior leaders
divide their attention between larger organizational concerns and the personal leadership of those who take direct action in their
behalf. In the final analysis, leadership and
command at senior levels is the art of reconciling competing demands according to priori-.
ties activated by a clearly formed vision,
implemented by a clearly communicated
intent, and enforced by the toughness to
see matters through.

3

CHAPTER 1

PEACE AND WAR
The key to success hinges on practicing
and developing leadership and command
habits in peace that will be used in war.
Problems arise because -of the differences
between peace and war. In peace sometimes
there is a blurring of tesponsibilities and
priOrities. Management activities often seem
to dominate. And, in the press of the daily
routine, warfighting responsibilities are sometimes overlooked. The key to maintaining
leadership perspective is sustaining the
ability to look beyond peacetime concerns.
This is the essence of being a warrior.
Unlike civilian organizations the Army must
be prepared to fight.
Leadership in peace and war demands
senior leaders and commanders who are
farsighted, flexible, and responsive. They
look beyond peace to determine what their
organizations need to be able to do for war,
set the standards, and then train their units
and soldiers accordingly. In the exercise of
their duties, they• Are first and foremost teachers and
coaches to their organizations.

In this sense, the concepts discussed in
this manual make no distinction in applicability for peace or war. They apply in all
circumstances and to all large organizations
at the tactical and operational levels. There
will be little time to learn new skills or
adapt once a conflict begins. The way those
in senior positions approach the training
of their units in peace will be the way units
operate in war. The way resources are
managed in peace will be the way they are
allocated in war. The involvement of senior
leaders ori the administrative and training
battlefield will determine the manner of
their presence on the combat battlefield.
The greatest contribution those in senior
positions make to their units, ·teams, and
soldiers is to measure their own leadership
actions at all times against a warrior standard. By so doing, they train their subordinates to do the same. The following
vignette related by General Dwight D. Eisenhower in Edgar F. Puryear's Nineteen Stars
illustrates how habits that transcend the
line between peace and war are developed:

• Develop technical and tactical competency.
• Instill an otganizational spirit to achieve
and win.
• Care deeply and use their leadership skills
to serve their units and soldiers.
• Safeguard the traditions of selfless service
to the nation.

THE STRUCTURE
This manual emphasizes what those in
senior positions do, given what they are
and what they know, to achieve correct
leadership and command effect. The aim
is to provide a flexible framework for good

4

thinking about senior leadership and command at tactical and operational levels.
Scientific language is kept to a minimum,
and where possible, points are supported
with tactical and operational examples.

CHAPTER 1

This manual, therefore, is a conceptual
treatment of leadership and command at
senior levels. It is left to the reader to
supply the details as they pertain to specific
leadership situations. Moreover, it is the
responsibility of instructors and researchers
to relate the concepts discussed to available
or emerging scientific leadership theory for
those needing or desiring a more in-depth
treatment of the subject.
The model of leadership and command
presented looks much like a wheel. It is
founded on the practical realization that all
action starts with a vision of what is required. Vision is the hub or core from which
flows the leadership and command force
that fires imaginations, sustaining the will
to win. Chapter 2 discusses the components
of vision. The concepts presented are consistent with current operations and leadership doctrine.

Practice those things in peacetime
that you intend to do in war.
tJe-t ~ s. 1'tttt-. fh.

KEY TO ALL THAT
MUST BE ACCOMPLISHED
IS A VISION .

Radiating from the hub are those
characteristics important to effective senior
leadership and command that strengthen
the ability lo convert the vision to action.
They represent the spokes of the wheel.
Chapter 3 addresses ethics as it pertains
to what those in senior positions must be
to implement their vision. Chapters 4, 5,
and 6 address skills, command processes,
and aspects of the organization that are
critical to effective execution of the visiona detailed treatment of what senior leaders
and commanders need to know ....
Chapter 7 completes the model of senior
leadership and command serving as the rim
for the conceptual wheel. It addresses what
senior leaders and commanders do to execute their vision. It builds on preceding
material by using examples of senior leaders
in action to illustrate how the desired tactical and operational results are achieved.

5

To meet leadership challenges on the
AirLand battlefield, there are no shortcutshistorically, they don't work. The art and
skill at senior levels is converting a vision
to action within an established situation
and in conformance with given time and
resource constraints. Therefore, any doctrine
must provide a useful framework.

The urgent need for such guides is under. scored by the fact that the officers who
will constitute the senior leadership of the
Army in the twenty-first century have already been commissioned. The leadership
skills, character, and capabilities they will
bring to any future battlefield are now
being developed.

SUMMARY
The changing face of war in · the late
twentieth century poses special, joint, and
combined challenges for senior leaders.
Our doctrine contained in FM 100-1 and
FM 100-5 provides a framework for coping
with these challenges, Any consideration of
senior leadership and command at the tactical and operational levels of war flows
from the imperatives and guidelines contained in that doctrine. It establishes the
tactical and operational leadership demands
and provides the conceptual base from
which the requirements, characteristics, and
tasks of effective senior leadership and
command flow.
Senior-level leadership is the art of direct
and indirect influence and the skill of
creating the conditions for sustained organizational success to achieve the desired

6

result. But, above all, it is the art of taking
a vision of what must be done, communicating it in a way that the intent is
. clearly. understood, and then being tough
enough to ensure its execution.
The treatment of leadership and command at senior levels draws no distinction
between peace and war. Those who lead
and command at senior levels look beyond
peace to determine what units and soldiers
need for war, set the standards, and then
train accordingly. Therefore, the model of
leadership discussed in this manual can be
likened to that of a wheel. At the hub is
vision. The spokes are those skills and the
knowledge which must be mastered to implement the vision. The rim represents the
actions demanded to achieve the desired
organizational results.

CHAPTER 2

Leadership Vision

n
it throug
n
is to em
ns-cathed from this relentless struggle
with the unforeseen, two qualities are indispensable:
first, an intellect that, even in the darkest hour,
retains some glimmerings of the inner light which
leads to truth; and second, the courage to follow this
faint light wherever it may lead.

OPERATIONAL CONCEPT
All action starts with a vision. For our
forefathers, vision was embodied in the
Constitution which today still stands as
the most basic statement of why we have
an army and what values are worth fighting for. Building on this foundation,
vision, for those at senior levels, is a
personal concept of what the organization
must be capable of doing by some future

point. It is the target. What does the unit
need to accomplish today, tomorrow, or
years from now to achieve the desired
result? How is the organization developed
to achieve that capability?
A fundamental task in warfighting
involves bringing armed force to bear effectively to defeat the enemy. Force will be

7

CHAPTER 2

applied most decisively when senior tactical-level or operational-level commanders
and leaders, in advance of events, establish
the conditions they want to obtain at the
conclusion of a battle or campaign. Only
if they understand the ends they seek can
they prepare and communicate clear statements of intent from which can flow the·
concepts and actions needed to ensure
success. No coherent battle or campaign is
possible without a lucid vision of how it
should conclude.
Thus, vision is a senior leader's source
of effectiveness. In a Clausewitzian sense
it is his "inner light." It can be an intuitive sensing, a precise mission, or a higher
commander's intent for a campaign or
battle. Regardless, it is the reference point
against which the senior leader measures
progress. In fact, when properly formed, it
provides its own capability to change or
affirm its direction.

The personality of the general is
Vision provides the capability to orgaindispensable. He is the head, he nize because it establishes focus for
actions and guidance to the organization
is the all of an Army. The Gauls
were not conquered by the which will follow. Moreover, it is the
basis on which senior leaders or comRoman legions, but by Caesar. It
was not before the Carthaginian manders generate the moral leadership
power our constitutional heritage requires
soldiers that Rome was made to
tremble, but before Hannibal. It
to activate the professional resources
was not the Macedonian phalanx needed to muster and sust~in organiza~
tional trust, cohesion, commitment, and
which penetrated to India.• but
Alexander. It was not the French
will to meet any challenge.
Army which reached the Weser
A vision is also important in another
and the Inn, it was Turenne.
Prussia was not defended for way. Senior-level leadership forms the
seven years against the three broad framework within which leadership
most formidable European at all lower levels is developed, nurtured;
Powers by the Prussian soldiers, practiced, and sustained. Effective senior. but by Frederick the Gteat. level leadership is based on perspectives
·and skills that require highly developed
1/4/Joluc
competency, character, steadfastness, and
boldness. Unless those in senior positions
have a well-developed vision of what that
leadership entails, developing the desired
leadership depth in the organization will
be difficult if not impossible.

8

CHAPTER 2

The goal of a properly focused v1s10n,
therefore, is the molding of organizational
leadership effort so that it forges warfighting capabilities, becoming an element

of combat power where the whole is greater
in effect than the sum of the parts. This
chapter will introduce the components of
vision that s.enior leaders require.

SENIOR LEADERS AND COMMANDERS
Because those in senior positions are
central figures in all organizational warfighting activities, the impact of their
actions has far-reaching implications. Even
though soldiers and units win battles,
inescapably, senior-level leaders are visible
and more directly accountable for their professional conduct. They are the professionals all members of the organization
look to for answers.
. The list of responsibilities is virtually
endless. Senior leaders and commanders
teach, coach, and encourage. They care,
are technically and tactically competent,
and train subordinate units and soldiers to
operate the same way. They set and
demand adherence to tough, clear, achievable, and meaningful standards. Those in
senior positions take responsibility for the
good, the bad, the right, and the wrong.
And finally, they inspire and develop excellence in units and soldiers. They are the
arbiters of the human spirit so important
to organizational success.
To make sense out of the seeming chaos
and form their vision, senior leaders and
commanders possess certain attributes and
perspectives and adhere to specific leadership imperatives. Attributes establish what
leaders are. Perspectives govern what they
need to know. Imperatives dictate what
they do to execute their tactical and operational responsibilities.
ATTRIBUTES
Three attributes determine what those
in senior positions are to their units and
organizations. First, senior leaders and

commanders are standard bearers who
establish the ethical framework required
for organizational activity. Second, when
teaching, training, or coaching, they are
developers. Finally, to establish the conditions for focusing the activities of units
and soldiers, those in senior positions are
multitalented integrators.

Standard Bearer
Being a standard bearer demands a commitment to live and defend the tenets of
the profession, safeguard its key traditions,
and pass them on to. those who follow.
Forming the vision requires well-developed
ethical standards that provide certainty in
the face of confusion, reference points
where there are none, and the moral force
required to engage the will of subordinates.
As standard bearers, senior leaders and
commanders give their concepts meaning
by serving as examples. In so doing, they
provide the means to reduce potential
ethical dilemmas. Those in senior positions
understand that the will needed to win
develops best where there are good examples to follow. Further, they know that a
solid ethical foundation is important to a
sustained ability to motivate units and
soldiers to do difficult and dangerous
things under extreme conditions that tactic al and operational situations might
require.
Effective senior leaders are also sensitive to the ethical impact of their actions.
Unlike basic soldier skills, ethical behavior
is learned more by observing than by listening. Moreover, examples become certainty

9

CHAPTER 2

in fast-moving situations. Being a. standard
bearer creates trust and openness, solidifying· the links with our constitutional heritage. Soldiers and units come to possess
shared values, fulfilling the vision without
the physical presence of senior leaders and
commanders.Thus, because of their visibility, what senior leaders do or fail to do
has lasting impact.

Developer·
Being a developer makes units exciting,
progressive places to work and learn.
Leadership, from this perspective, .dwells
on detail only enough to provide senior
leaders or commanders with the ability to
communicate the intent of their vision.
Although those in senior positions who are
developers possess many skills, they are
foremost teachers of units and soldiers.
Whether in a headquarters, in a unit
motor pool, on a firing range, or during a
lull in combat, they never miss an opportunity to teach or to learn something new
themselves. Followers have confidence in
them and know that rewards will be given
to those who learn and perform well.
Senior leaders who are developers are seen
a.s professionals who understand, what
needs to be done and can pasi on the
lessons to others. (See Appendix B, Professional
Development.)
..
Senior leaders and commanders who
are developers are also coaches. Simply
defined, coaching suggests someone who
?ares enough to get involved by encouragmg and developing younger, less experienced _leaders and commanders. In turn,
subordmates see those who coach as senior
professionals who can be counted on for
support. Such senior leaders encourage and
offer timely advice to help subordinates
perform better, sharing their experience
and expertise. They ensure the spotlight is
on the player, not on the coach. Moreover
in spite of the demands of service at senio~
levels, they take time to listen and respond
to problems.
·
.

10

Soldiers serving with senior leaders and
commanders who focus on being developers
know they can take risks, learn, and still
retain the opportunity to win. The organizational focus is on the ,''.opportunity to
succeed" rather than on 'the "freedom to
fail." Further, even though soldiers might
make mistakes, they find such leaders are
positive in seeking solutions to problems
that are seen as a normal part of life in a
unit.
·
Senior-level leaders who are developers
promote initiative and agility. Th.ey provide a framework that fosters the ability
and willingness of subordinates to operate
independently within the context of their
intent. The effect is organizational depthdepth in talent and expertise which sustains the organization in peace and war~

Integrator
Being an integrator provides the view
of the future, the insight, the ·ability· to
mold many soldiers and units into cohesive, winning teams needed to execute
the vision. Senior-level leaders who are
integrators understand that success can
only be achieved when there is an allpervading unity of effort. They have
extraordinary capabilities to muster
resources and are masters at reconciling
competing. demands within their units.
They see clear, certain directives as key to
operational success. They have a sixth
sense about where problems will occur and
make their presence felt at the critical
places and times. Moreover, they develop
o~g.anizations and teams with the capab1h ty to solve problems quickly and
effectively.
In the final analysis, senior leaders
and commanders who are integrators contribute through their ability to focus on
the future, willingness to establish the
required priorities, ability to be tough
enough to see the matter through, and
wisdom to leave the details to subordinates. They understand that units generally do best when they are left to operate

CHAPTER 2

within the framework of the vision-based
intent they have communicated.
PERSPECTIVES
Well-developed perspectives founded on
appropriate knowledge are essential. Perspectives provide senior leaders and commanders with the personal confidence to
know that the vision is correct or needs
changing to conform with the situation.
Further, perspectives ensure that senior
leaders possess the timing needed to anticipate and form the situation.
Those at senior levels. provide wise and
timely vision-based guidance founded on
three perspectives. First, they possess a
well-developed historical perspective.
Second, senior leaders and commanders
know operations and have a solid operational perspective. Finally, they ensure
they understand their units and have an
appropriate organizational pe!spective.

Historical. ·
To establish and maintain a historical
perspective, s·enior professionals read and
study history. Senior-level leadership has
been a continuing subject of study. Hundreds of years before the birth of Christ,
Sun Tzu established the primacy of the
senior leader as the key player on the field
of battle. The Romans and the Greeks provided a rich legacy of knowledge pertaining to the operations of leaders, men, and
large units. Clausewitz recorded the framework, characteristics, .and dimensions of
senior-level leadership in his discussion of
"genius" in war· which prevails today.
Ardant du Plcq added the direct human
linkages to tactical actions on the battlefield. Finally, during the twentieth century,
numeroµs eminent military writers have
enlarged on classical historical writings to
provide rich .sources for developing comprehensive historical perspectives.
Knowing history, therefore, provides
senior leaders and commanders with a core
of background knowledge. From this can

flow certainty of purpose, moral strength,
analytical skills, and calmness in the face
of uncertainty as they form and refine
their vision of what must be done.
Weapons and conditions may change,· but
principles, relationships, patterns, and
mental images remain constant.
There is no need to relearn the lessons
of history when most of history itself is
an open book. A knowledge-based historical perspective is a source for insights
and a common reference point. It helps
those in senior positions solve the leadetship and command challenges of today
and tomorrow by providing a sense of
scale and proportion. Further, common military traditions based on an informed
understanding of history assist all mem~
hers of the organization in finding common.
solutions to professional problems.

Operational
A meaningful operational perspective.
develops from current knowledge of doctrine, constant study of the art of war,.
and total familiarity with the capabilities·
of men and machines. Doctrine provides
the starting point for. determining what is·
required. A study of the art of war provides
the necessary background to determine·
what has been possible. Understanding the
capabilities of men and machines ensures
that an operational perspective conforms
with the mission. A well-formed operational perspective allows those at senior
levels to visualize the entire battlefield
and determine how to generate combat
power to achieve the desired result.
·
Senior professionals sustain their
operational perspective through practice
and study. Therefore, they• Understand doctrine and take every
opportunity to war-game and test opera'-;
tional concepts.
·
• Study matters of current professional
and operational interest.

11

CHAPTER 2

• Study the art of war.
• Are able to apply special considerations
such as intelligence, logistics, and personnel to their operational deliberations.

The commander should appear
friendly to his soldiers, speak to them
on the march, visit them while they
. are cooking, ask them if they are
well cared for, and alleviate their
needs if they have any.
"?~~~

• Retain the ability to instill excitement
and purpose for every round of ammunition expended in training or every
activity undertaken in the pursuit of
excellence.
• Study the enemy-get inside his mind;
our actions must be based on knowledge
of how he thinks .
Well-developed operational perspectives
result in wise, knowledgeable leadership
that ensures units and soldiers reach their
full potential. To know operations deeply
is to be able to arouse units and men
through the vision to be bold and aggressive in the pursuit of excellence and
victory.

Organizational
An organizational perspective takes
those at senior levels to the basic concern
in organizations-soldiers. It is soldiers
who maintain the weapons, maneuver the
vehicles, and fight the battles and campaigns. Any effective organizational capability flows from a familiarity with the
human condition and a sound grasp for
how it must · be carefully formed through
wise, farsighted leadership to sustain cohesive, winning teams.

The human heart is ... the starting
point in all matters pertaining to war.
~~.USeu:e

12

Senior leaders and commanders develop
organizational perspective through professional study of soldiers and the nature of
military organizations. This study provides
important insights that allow them to hone
their ability to match their vision with the
capabilities and limitations of their units
and soldiers.
An organizational perspective is sustained through involvement. Those at
senior- levels cannot be content with the
impressions of others. While indirect observations can and will assist in the making

CHAPTER 2

of decisions, they do not provide one essential element: a direct sample of the daily
condition of units and men. Without a
first-hand knowledge of the organization's
condition, senior leaders will have an
incomplete sensing of unit capabilities, for
training or for combat, possibly placing
the entire unit at risk.
Another reason for personal involvement flows from senior-level leaders'
responsibility to care. A healthy organization is a primary source of military cohesion. Cohesion becomes self-sustaining
only when the majority of a soldier's professional behavior conforms to unit standards and common goals. But, cohesion
cannot be achieved from the top down; it
is developed through concerned leadership
throughout the entire organization. Therefore, senior leaders and commanders
ensure that staffs and subordinates serve
and care for units and soldiers. In turn,
they challenge themselves to exhibit caring leadership by being concerned directly
with matters of morale, esprit, and wellbeing of soldiers. (See Appendix C, Characteristics of Healthy and Unhealthy
Organizations.)
IMPERATIVES
Senior leaders and commanders ensure
the conditions for winning on the battlefield through direct and indirect action.
Having the proper attributes and perspectives is not enough. Their vision of
what needs to happen must contain
imperatives for focusing action. In this
way they sustain the organizational .will
required to win.
Those at senior levels ensure that their
vision includes provisions to provide the
purpose, direction, and motivation to their
units and soldiers demanded by FM 100-5.
The requirements are the same whether
one commands a combat unit, leads a
staff, or is responsible for a school unit,
Moreover, the importance of fulfilling the
imperatives remains constant across the

spectrum of war and the rapid operational
tempo that our global responsibilities
require.

Purpose
Establishing purpose provides the
organization with a reason to withstand
the stress of continuous operations. Baron
von Steuben learned that American soldiers do best when they know why they
are doing something. Therefore, collectively, knowing why gives one's actions
and sacrifices meaning.
Establishing purpose depends heavily
on an ability to understand what is
required of the organization. Further, it is
based on an appreciation of the strategic,
operational, and tactical levels of war.
Finally, it depends on a well-formed ability
to communicate the intent clearly so that
it links the larger aims to the organization's mission in the short- and long-term
context.
However they arrive at their concept or
vision, effective senior leaders or commanders pass on to subordinates at least
two · echelons below a coherent pjcture of
how units fit into the "big picture." They
impart a sense of priority and importance
for the tasks that must be accomplished
and relate how success or failure of the
organization will impact on the world
beyond the unit. In combat, events will
not unfold as planned, assumptions may
prove wrong, and assigned tasks may be
·inappropriate.· Knowing the reasons for
organizational actions helps subordinates
judge what new tasks might be more
appropriate and leads to overall harmony
in execution and economy of effort wh~n
executing senior-level directives. It provides the means for independent thought
and decision to solve unanticipated problems that are best resolved when acted on
rapidly.
When properly established, purpose
focuses soldiers and units on the task. It

18

CHAPTER 2

enables subordinates to operate in a disciplined manner, within the established
intent, in the absence of positive control
and effective communications, under potentially chaotic conditions. It allows senior
leaders and commanders to trust their subordinates to use initiative to align their
actions with the vision in ways that
cannot be forecast before the action.
Finally, establishing purpose creates
organizational conditions where soldiers
and units freely seek opportunities to
improve, share an understanding of what
needs to be done, and commit themselves
to .the team or unit.

Direction
Providing direction dictates that those
in senior positions chart a clear and
unambiguous course for their organizations, based on their vision, and create the
conditions that allow their organizations
to succeed. Setting goals and standards,
developing teams, ensuring discipline, and
training the organization are the means
senior leaders and commanders use to
chart organizational direction. Goals and
standards provide the azimuth. Teams provide the depth needed. Discipline provides
the assurance that goals and standards are
met in the absence of leaders. Finally,
training provides the confidence to know
that desired results can be achieved.
Those in senior positions clearly state
and assign missions to subordinates. In
addition to such direct guidance, they also
influence action indirectly. They promote
values; set standards for task accomplishment; enforce discipline; establish standing
operating procedures; ensure the training
,of soldiers and units in appropriate doctrin·e, methods, and techniques; and establish policies and regulations. At the
highest operational levels, military leaders
also may be responsible for developing the
doctrine, methods, or techniques the organization will use.

14

When senior leaders couple purpose
with direction, they reinforce the capability
to communicate their intent. Now not only
do subordinates know what must be done,
they understand why it is necessary. Without purpose and direction in combination,
no vision is complete, and communication
of the intent is inexact at best. Because
organizations are made up of people, the
extent to which those at senior levels align
and channel all the separate wills and
energies by providing direction is the extent
to which they unify effort and multiply the
combat power of their organizations.

Motivation
Motivating units and soldiers ensures
that the organization is capable of generating the required moral force demanded
by the values of our society. It is not
enough that subordinates know why and
what is to be done. They also need the will
to do their utmost as teams to achieve the
desired goals under the most difficult
circumstances.
Senior leaders and commanders are
responsible for ensuring that the required
motivation exists. They do this by developing the proper ethical perspective, sustaining a positive and progressive command
climate, and fostering a sense of unity
that generates an unshakable organizational cohesion. Those at senior levels
operate from a premise that they are the
keepers of the moral force that flows from
our values and sustains and engages the
will of subordinates to achieve moral
ascendency over their opponents. They are
technically and tactically competent. Soldiers have a right to expect that senior
leaders know wha:t they are doing. Further,
senior-level leaders build shared values and
promote consistent ethical standards
needed to create effective teams. Finally,
they ensure that mutual trust and confi. dence are maintained between leaders and
the led.

CHAPTER 2

IMPLEMENTING THE VISION
When implementing their vision, those
at senior levels keep in mind two facts.
First, military organizations must be
prepared to fight and win. Senior leaders
focus all their energy on ·achieving this
capability. Military operations are resultsoriented activities and the fluid nature of
war places a premium on leadership,
cohesion, and effective independent operations. Therefore; improvisation, initiative,
and aggressiveness are well-developed at
all levels;
·
Second, senior leaders and commanders
recognize that success depends on knowing
what is possible. They are masters at
balancing competing organizational
demands with the reality of the situation
they confront. Moreover, they know they
have an obligation to consider the effect
of time and measure its impact against the
situation and mission to determine what
is possible. Finally, they understand that
they have the responsibility to reconcile
organizational capabilities against requirements established by the vision to ensure
they match.

pursuit of excellence in training and operations, the result will be accomplishment of
the vision and organizations that possess• Shared values.
• A decentralized ability to execute orders
within the established intent.
• A common understanding of standards.
• A common tactical and technical compe-.
tence.
·
• A common understanding of the· commander's intent.
• An ability to anticipate and deal with
the unexpected.
To achieve the full effect of any vision,
General William T. Sherman noted in his
memoirs that a senior leader or commander must operate to:

Senior-level leaders make their vision a
reality by synchronizing the training and
operational efforts of soldiers and units.
The means are the tasks, conditions, and
standards they establish. Execution effectiveness and the ability to measure what
they do then depends on how they apply
their attributes and perspectives and the
three leadership imperatives to make the
vision a reality.
Being standard bearers, developers, and
integrators supplies the values and ethical
standards· necessary to create the conditions for success. Knowing history, operations, and organizations provides the power
to generate commitment and the confidence
to train and operate knowing that the
tasks are proper to support the mission.
Acting to establish purpose, direction, and
motivation creates the standards that
sustain the will to win. When used in the

15

CHAPTER 2

SUMMARY
Vision is a senior leader's source of
effectiveness. In a Clausewitzian sense, it
is his inner light. In a warfighting sense
it is the senior leader's personal concept
of what the organization must be capable
of doing by some future point. It can be
an intuitive sensing, a precise mission, or
a higher commander's intent for a battle
or campaign.
To make sense out of the seeming chaos
and form their vision, those in senior positions possess certain attributes and
perspectives and adhere to specific leadership imperatives. Attributes establish what
leaders are. Perspectives govern what they
need to know. Imperatives dictate what
they do.
Three attributes determine what those
in senior positions are to their organization. First, they are standard bearers who
establish the required ethical framework.
Second, when teaching, training, and
coaching, they are developers. Finally, to
focus organizational activity, senior leaders
are integrators.

Perspectives provide senior leaders with
the personal confidence to know the vision
is correct. Those who serve at senior levels
provide wise guidance founded on three
perspectives. First, they possess a welldeveloped historical perspective. Second,
senior leaders and commanders know operations and have a solid operational perspective. Finally, they ensure they understand
their units by having an appropriate
organizational perspective.
Senior leaders understand that their
vision must include imperatives for focusing action. In this way they sustain the
organizational will required to win. Therefore, their actions include provisions to
provide purpose, direction, and motivation
to their organizations.
A fully formed vision thus provides
senior leaders with the capability to know
what is possible. They establish the tasks,
conditions, and standards that ensure
accomplishment of the vision. They create
the indispensable component of combat
power-leadership.

ATTRIBUTES
' \ , • STANDARD
\.
BEARER
\. • DEVELOPER
\.\. • INTEGRATOR

IMPERATIVES'\_-----

I

•PURPOSE
•DIRECTION

I

/PERSPECTIVES

f • HISTORY
I. OPERATIONS

• MOTIVATION

I

------

/ . ORGANIZATIONS

I

I

16

I

----

CHAPTER 3

Professional Ethics

FOUNDATIONS
To achieve the results required by their
vision and to be standard bearers, developers, and integrators, those at senior levels
ensure their actions are firmly rooted in
the ethical system embraced by the United
States Army. This system has two components. First, it is drawn from our Constitution, the values of society, and the ethical
principles that flow from these values.
Second, it depends on established ethical
soldierly habits that flow from the hard
values of the battlefield and are relevant
to the life and death issues military professionals must be prepared to confront.
Together, these components place proper

restraints on professional behavior that
sustains public trust and confidence in
peace. They provide the springboard to gain
moral ascendency over any potential opponent in war.
As has been the case from the time of
General George Washington and the formation of our Constitution, men of honor who
have abided by the highest ethical
standards of conduct and selfless service
have been the ones who have successfully
wielded the moral authority. They have
maintained freedom and sustained the will
of American soldiers on the field of battle.

17

CHAPTER 3

A firm ethical base is, therefore, the
cornerstone of the Army. It is most directly
expressed in FM 100-1. Ethics set the standard and the framework for correct professional action. They serve as a link between
soldierly habit and what is moral, determining the trust citizens have in their Army
and its ability to defend their vital interests.
Most important, in the hands of competent
senior leaders or commanders, professional
ethics provide the capability to relate institutional values to the tasks that need to
be accomplished.
In times of danger, the ethical element
of leadership bonds soldiers and units together, enabling them to withstand the
stresses of combat and ultimately gain victory. If that capability has not been nurtured, shaped, and sustained at senior levels
through the maintenance of proper ethical
example and standards, the organization
will fail just as surely as if the weapons
of war had been taken from its soldiers' hands.
The key to clarity where ethical matters
are concerned depends on those at senior
levels standing for something by doing what
is ethically correct for the profession. They
must train and maintain an Army that can
fight and win; be honest stewards of the
charge to defend and support the Constitution; be selfless, courageous models of
ethical behavior; and respect and understand
the ethical positions of others.

The remammg portions of the chapter
address ethics as the vision reference point
that activates the organization to gain the
moral ascendency required to win. If there
is any one factor that makes leadership and
command at senior levels critical, it is the
ethical visibility of senior leaders and their
fundamental charge to represent selflessly
the organization, the profession, and the
nation in all that they are and do. General
Patton's daughter, Ruth Ellen Patton Totten,
in "The Army Wife's Heritage," expressed'
the concept of selfless service most effectively when she observed:

ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITIES
Senior leaders and commanders have
specific ethical responsibilities to their organizations. These responsibilities flow directly from the attributes required of senior
leaders to successfully implement their
vision. First, they are worthy role models.
Second, they promote the ethical development of their subordinates by teaching them
how to reason clearly about ethical matters.
Finally, they sustain an ethical climate that
promotes trust and professional commitment.

18

BE A ROLE MODEL
Ethical behavior is lived; therefore, it has
to be modeled to be understood. Whether
they like it or not, senior leaders are on
display at all times. Actions telegraph their
true philosophy and must be consistent with
what they say. Finally, the reactions of
senior-level leaders to unforeseen events tell
their organization and soldiers how they
should act in similar situations. Thus, senior

CHAPTER 3

leaders cannot ignore the effect of their own
behavior. They accept the obligation to be
role models because they know that their
personal and professional conduct does
make a difference.
How senior leaders select and use their
personal staffs, sponsor those they coach,
react to those who disagree with them, uniformly apply policies, share hardships, regard those who take unpopular ethical positions, and stand up for their organization
all involve ethical judgment and conduct
to some degree. Therefore, several aspects
of senior-leader ethical conduct deserve
special consideration as one discharges the
responsibilities to be a role model.

The moral force required to win is
directly tied to the ethics and shared
values of the profession.

Subordinate Perceptions
What may appear to be ethical to senior
leaders or commanders may not be seen
that way by subordinates or others in the
organization. In particular, senior leaders
must be sensitive to those who may not
agree with their actions. Key in evaluating
ethical behavior is understanding the reasoning behind senior-leader decisions. Consequently, those in senior positions should
constantly check to ensure that their subordinates' perceptions are consistent with
the message they intend to convey. Where
they do not match, senior leaders are obligated to make a special effort to communicate and explain the rationale for their actions. As an example, senior leaders must
be extremely carefol at all times in their
use of official transportation such as sedans
and aircraft. Ordinary instances occur where
soldiers perceive that these resources have
been used inappropriately when, in fact, the
use was correct and proper.

.·..... ;'

Routine Actions
Many routine actions are so far below
the normal "noise" level that they receive
only cursory consideration by those in senior positions. But they too have an ethical
dimension and their volume can have an
enormous impact on the credibility of senior

19

CHAPTER 3

leaders as role models. No action is so routine or so mundane that leaders shouldn't
be sensitive to its ethical implications.
A vi1mette:

Loyalty
The matter of loyalty has important
implications for senior leaders' effectiveness
as role models. Loyalty generally is something that goes up as well as down, Senior
leaders and .commanders as well as subordinates need to guard against confusing
personal loyalty with loyalty to higher
ideals. When this happens they believe that
their personal judgments and actions define
the greater good by virtue of .their station
or their relationship to another professional,
rather than mission or need. Again, a
vignette puts matters in focus:

Expediency
Senior leaders and commanders need to
remind themselves constaritly to guard
against using sophisticated rationalizations
for expedient actions that support mission
accomplishment. When they fall into this
trap because of political pressures, weighty
obligations, or more subtle ethical considerations characteristic of their positions,
they create double standards. The double
standards, in turn, undermine trust and
confidence in organizations, establishing the
conditions for subordinates to rationalize
that much unethical behavior is acceptable.
As an example, one of the more insidious
expediencies that fall into this category of
senior-level leader conduct is the admonishment to "do more with less." Without a
preliminary frank and full discussion of the
implications of such directives between the
parties, this admonishment goes against all
reality, forcing subordinates into a situation
where they must adopt a double standard.
Further, without continual assessment of
priorities and feedback, the directive to do
more with less uses the concepts of vision,
commander's intent, goal setting, management of resources, and risk taking against
the subordinate. The organization suffers
and the senior leader becomes a less effective role model.

PROMOTE ETHICAL
DEVELOPMENT
Senior-level leaders and commanders
promote organizational ethical development
through personal contact. Every tactics
class, every discussion with soldiers, every
staff meeting, is an opportunity to do this.
Here subordinates are taught how to reason
clearly about ethical matters. While every
action or decision leaders make will not
have an ethical component to it, senior-level
leaders teach their subordinates how to recognize and be sensitive to those actions or
decisions which do. A vignette related by
General Matthew B. Ridgway in his memoirs illustrates this point in a telling way:

20

CHAPTER 3

will commit themselves to organizational
tasks. In turn, a healthy ethical climate
has a direct bearing on readiness. Will
soldiers be honest .and work to improve
their shortcomings or will they cover things
up? Will units train hard or just go through
the motions?

Ethical sensitivity is thus the precondition for clear ethical reasoning. By
sharing their reasoning processes and
highlighting the ethical implications of the
situation, senior leaders and commanders
teach and coach their subordinates on the
ethics of their profession.
Ethical decisions also sometimes involve
tough choices rather than mechanical application of academic principles. Therefore,
senior leaders take the time to talk through
possible solutions with subordinates. They
cannot dictate specific actions, but they
can, through their experience, communicate
the range of behaviors which generally will
be acceptable.
The aim of senior-level leaders is to develop shared ethical perspectives so that
units and soldiers have a common base to
cope with the confusion and uncertainty of
operations. Unless subordinates have learned
how to think through ethical issues and
have the moral strength to do what they
believe is right, they often behave improperly. Senior leaders or commanders stand
accountable if the organization does not
develop ethically.

DEVELOP AND SUSTAIN THE
ETHICAL CLIMATE
Senior-level leaders are responsible for
developing and sustaining a healthy ethical
climate. It establishes the way people feel
about their responsibilities and interact
with others and the degree to which they

Most trust and confidence problems in
organizations can be traced to the ethical
climate. Where the climate is characterized
by threats, lack of ethical clarity, incompetency, and conflicting policies, subordinates
receive the wrong signals of expected behavior. Moreover, those at senior levels are
unaware of the attitudes and impressions
they convey to others. A sad but true story
that made the rounds in the Army illustrates this point:

To develop and sustain the correct ethical
climate, senior leaders and commanders
reach out to their organizations, know the
intricacies of their job, trust their people,
and take risks in their behalf. Recognizing
that actions speak more powerfully . than
words, they encourage openness and even
criticism, listen and support subordinates
who show initiative, and are toleran·t of
honest mistakes made in the process of
learning. Tolerating the honest mistakes of
subordinates is not accepting failure for its
own sake. Rather it creates a climate that

21

CHAPTER 3

fosters opportunities to succeed by recognizing that errors are inevitable in the process
of growth and learning.
As a minimum senior leaders and commanders should• Create sensitivity to ethical questions.
• Reward correct ethical behavior.
• Establish a sense of ethical purpose for
organizational activities.

• Shield units and soldiers from the hostile
ethical winds of unhealthy ambition and
form over substance.
• Stick up for soldiers and units.
• Promote a sense of belonging and trust.
• Specify clearly what behaviors are considered unethical and correct accordingly.
• Speak through action as well as words.

VALUES, ETHICS, AND WILL
To be effective, senior leaders and commanders are brought full circle to contemplate the essence of what must be done to
sustain the will of their organizations to
gain moral ascendency. It is a singly difficult, yet essential, task. Only through being
ethically strong can senior leaders infuse
in their soldiers an unflagging will to win.
To generate the capability to win, values
that flow from the Constitution and the
hard realities of the battlefield have to be
shared. Collectively these tasks fall to those
in senior positions.

Senior leaders do two things to accomplish these essential tasks. First, to shape
and mold the values of soldiers and units,
senior leaders and commanders adopt and
adhere to high standards of ethical behavior
relating to the key values that need to be
shared. They internalize and practice the
values of lo,valty, duty, selfless service, and
integrity outlined in FM 100-1. Second, to
demand ethical excellence in units and
soldiers, senior leaders and commanders
model the soldierly values of commitment,
competence, candor, and courage.

THE PAYOFF: MORAL TOUGHNESS
Senior leaders and commanders have not
always understood the importance of the
ethical dimension and the part being an
ethical example plays in sustaining the will
to win. The values of society are not always
in harmony with what it directs the professional to do. The personal conscience of
the soldier may interfere with what he has
to do to survive to succeed. And the aims
and goals of the organization may not fit
with personal needs. Yet if the ethical conditions are right, units and soldiers fight
bravely and gallantly.
Senior leaders and commanders create
the appropriate conditions through the force
of their example. To those who follow, they
exhibit the moral toughness to establish a
sense of noble purpose that will motivate
soldiers collectively to gain moral

22

ascendency over their enemy. They are seen
as fair and just. Marshal de Belle-Isle noted
in a well-known letter to his son on the
duties of a military leader:

CHAPTER 3

Senior-level leaders who exhibit moral
toughness are the reference points for the
will of their units and soldiers. They do
this by possessing strength of character,
self-confidence, and consistency in thought
and action.

STRENGTH
Moral toughness depends on strength of
character. Its power grows to maturity over
the course of a professional career and is
verified by the view others have of senior- .
level leaders as people. Because of their
visibility, their reputations, developed from
soldier and unit observations over time,
determine the public character of those in
senior positions, Try as they might, they
cannot change this.
Senior leaders and commanders can,
however, control their public character by
always considering the ethical implications
of their actions and behaving accordingly.
When they do this, whether they are
"hard-nosed" and "tough" will be less important th'an whether their behavior is
consistent and has moral force. Those at
senior levels can then shape the ethical
actions of subordinates and exert the character strength to dominate rather than to
be domin;:i.ted by the operational situation.
They are seen as being tenacious.

CONFIDENCE
Confident senior leaders and commanders
inspire trust and confidence in others. Initiative, decisiveness, and boldness are all
functions of self-confidence. Moreover, they
all depend on established professional habits.

Senior-level leaders radiate a
certainty that motivates their soldiers
to endure hardships, conquer fear,
and even make the ultimate sacrifice,
if required.

Unless senior leaders and commanders
first take stock of why they feel the way
they do, why they believe certain behavior
is correct, and why they need to do certain
things, they cannot be systematic. Without
a systematic view or philosophy of conduct,
senior-level leaders will have difficulty relating personal beliefs and needs to those
of the organization or situation. Their behavior will be erratic and reactive-without
focus.

23

CHAPTER 3

Within the military profession, ethical
conduct, and thus moral toughness, is a
life-long soldierly habit. Confidence grows
from the steady application of correct values
in daily situations. Choosing to perform one
professionally correct act reinforces the next
choice, leading to a systematic and confident professional outlook that is transmitted
to subordinates.
Key to the growth of such confidence
is disciplining one's self to do the right
thing so· that proper conduct over time becomes a natural response. Willing to do
right engenders habits that facilitate success
and confidence. The results are morally
confident senior soldiers in peace who will
be morally tough i:;enior soldiers in war.
CONSISTENCY

Character is like a tree and
reputation is its shadow. The shadow
is what we think of it; the tree is the
real thing.
A~L~

Because of the visibility of senior leaders
and commanders, their inconsistencies, idiosyncracies, and shortcomings are quickly
noticed and analyzed, dissected, and discussed for their implications. Only by being
themselves at all times can senior leaders
deal with the dilemma their visibility presents and be consistent in their actions.
When they are consistent, their subordinates
know what to expect. There is nothing less
professional than someone who tries to be
something he is not.
Consistency of thought and action in
peacetime training and garrison operations
translate to certainty in fast-moving combat
situations. Certainty in combat increases the
will, and thus the capability, of a unit to
win. The actions of senior leaders and
commanders must be consistent-they do
have lasting impact. Guides to achieve
consistency include· • Avoid actions that cannot be readily
understood, explained, or justified.
• Admit mistakes and take corrective action
immediately.
• Be· yourself.

24

CHAPTER 3

• Use successful past action as a guide for
future action.
• Stick to decisions prudently made.
• Keep the ethical consequences of all
actions in clear focus.
• Never lose sight of the objective of the
action.

• Give subordinates time to respond to
directed actions.
• Accept full responsibility for the actions
of your command.
• Hold subordinates responsible for their
actions.
• Assume your subordinates are trustworthy.

SUMMARY
The professional demands placed on senior leaders and commanders require that
they uphold and abide by the highest
standards of ethical behavior. They set the
ethical example to achieve moral ascendency
over their opponent. If there is one factor
that sets senior leaders and commanders
apart, it is their ethical visibility.

•VALUES
•STANDARDS
•WILL

• BE A ROLE MODEL
• PROMOTE ETHICAL
DEVELOPMENT
• DEVELOP/ SUSTAIN
ETHICAL CLIMATE

they serve as role models worthy of emulation. Second, they promote ethical development in subordinates. Finally, they
develop and sustain the ethical climate.
Fundamental to all that has to be accomplished ethically, senior leaders and
commanders are morally tough. A senior
leader who possesses moral toughness provides his unit with the will to fight and
the ability to gain the moral ascendency
required to win.

PAYOFF:
MORAL

TOUGHNESS

---

•STRENGTH
• CONFIDENCE
• CONSISTENCY

25

SKILLS AND SUCCESS
General Bradley's words were verified as
the American Army at Normandy fought
through the critical and heroic days of June
1944. The exploits of the senior leaders and
commanders of that great amphibious assault were recorded using such terms as
bold, audacious, agile, and daring. Their
origins were to be found, however, in a
much simpler concept called skill, shaped
and sharpened by countless years of study,
of war games, of excellence at the basics,
and of understanding one's self. In turn,
the skills reflected themselves in selfconfidence, decisiveness, moral courage, and
character that allowed the senior leadership
of that Army to meet the stern leadership
test of Normandy and do the things that
gained victory in Europe.

26

The AirLand battlefield holds the promise of similar tests of skill. What senior
leaders and commanders do will make the
difference. Their skills represent the knowledge base required for action to implement
the vision of what must be accomplished.
If properly developed, skills provide the
means to plan and direct the battles and
campaigns discussed in FM 100-5. Further,
they sustain those at senior levels through
times of great crisis, allowing them to make
timely decisions, issue appropriate orders,
and execute plans decisively in the absence
of detailed information. Not every skill
needed will be important in every situation.
But having a broad range of highly developed skills will greatly increase the chances
for success.

CHAPTER 4

'r,,

THE SKILLS
Professional capabilities are most commonly expressed using descriptive attributes.
For example: Senior leaders or commanders
are bold and innovative; They possess
strength of character and courage; They are
intelligent, insightful, innovative, and unpredictable to their enemies; They are tenacious
and ambitious and possess the determination to persevere; and, finally, They
have compassion and care for their soldiers.
In fact, there are so many descriptive attributes that the noted British commander.
Archibald Wavell observed in Generals
and Generalship:
The many and contrasted qualities that
a general must have rightly gives an
impression of the great field of activity
that generalship covers and the variety
of the situations in which it has to deal,
and the need for adaptability in the
make-up of a general. (41)

Describing the attributes of successful
senior leaders and commanders would be
interesting, but as a source for action they
are limited. Underpinning every attribute
are skills or· abilities which give rise to the
descriptive attributes. Further, given the
tactical and operational challenges, discussing the skills those at senior levels
may need is more useful.

One can never predict accurately which
skill or skills may be critical. Certainly,
no one can hope to be strong in every warfig hting skill. Senior leaders can, however, strive to be good in some skills
and then adjust operational habits where
they are weak. In particular, how· senior
leaders choose and develop their organizational teams can do much to overcome
personal skill deficiencies. One hallmark
of good senior-level leadership is recog~
nizing one's weaknesses and making appro•
priate adjustments.
Professional skills build on the basic ·
leadership tenets of knowing yqurself, know~
ing human nature, knowing yorur job, and
knowing your unit. At the same time, senior
leader and commander skills are different.
First, they provide the capability to generate the action required to succeed in the·
complex technological and organizational
world where senior leaders operate. Second,
they are the yardstick by which senior
professionals are judged by their soldiers,
other professionals, and even th1~ir enemies.
Third, professional skills provide the means
for clear expression of purpose and direction
to subordinates so that operations can be
executed effectively and the intent understood. The skills that will be addressed are
grouped as shown in the following figure.

Conceptual

Competency

Communica·tions

Decision making

Perspective

Forecasting
Creativity
Intuition

Endurance
Risk taking

Interpersonal
Listening.
Language
Teaching
Persuasion

Coordination
Assessment

27

.,

>

·
.,,,,

CHAPTER 4

CONCEPTUAL
Well-developed conceptual skills allow
senior leaders or commanders to think and
act in terms of the total system with an
understanding of the constraints time places
on all actions. Such skills are their first line
of defense when dealing with complexity,
allowing them to shape the future, be good
planners, and generate the timely capability
to outthink the enemy. They understand
that issues arise from multiple causes internal as well as external to the organization.

The acid test of an officer who
aspires to high command is his
ability to be able to grasp quickly the
essentials of a military problem.
?teU ~ 'Bt9UUflrd .L. ~

A broad conceptual focus enables senior
leaders to establish long-range as well as
short-range goals that provide purpose and
direction to the vision of what needs to be
accomplished. In effect, they integrate the
efforts of the many individuals, teams,
units, and groups that form the organization. Those with well-developed conceptual
skills are decisive and have common sense,
vision, judgment, and imagination. These
attributes flow from four conceptual skills:
• Decision making.
• Forecasting.
• Creativity.
• Intuition.

Decision Making
Decision making is a difficult conceptual
skill to master. At the same time, it is the
most important conceptual activity senior
leaders perform. It establishes accountability
and responsibility even though decisions,
under the best of circumstances, are based
on incomplete and sometimes inaccurate
information. Moreover, it involves empowering subordinates so that good decisions
are made at the right levels. Finally, its
quality is determined by the amount of trust
and judgment that subordinates and senior
leaders apply to a situation.
Two activities absolutely essential to
maintain effective decision-making skills are
synthesis and analysis. As part of decision
making, synthesis makes the seemingly complex and disorganized meaningful and useful.
Data are collected and matched with other

28

CHAPTER 4

data until the pieces fit, like a mental jigsaw puzzle. Information is combined with
other data or information in the same manner. At this point, what exists is processed
information which can be transmitted, analyzed, or merged with other data or information at a higher level so that it can be
used in the decision process.
Well-trained staffs can perform many
routine synthesis functions for senior leaders. Further, computers can execute the
data storage function quite effectively even
though they can perform only limited synthesis activities. Senior leaders or commanders, however, are at risk if they delegate
the synthesis function totally and cease to
use this activity to integrate selected data
for themselves. There are many levels of
information and data to which an additional
piece of input can be applied. Only someone
with a view and understanding of the whole
situation can make the correct judgment.
Therefore, senior leaders must communicate
clearly to their staffs what information they
need and then hold them accountable to
provide it.
An ability to analyze effectively is critical because it provides the framework with
which senior leaders or commanders view
information; attach importance to it; determine its relevancy to the administrative,
operational, or tactical situation; and ultimately make their decisions. Analysis allows
one rapidly to take information apart, establish patterns, and construct the beginnings of a set of priorities for current or
future action.
Staffs and subordinates can assist in
analyzing information. However, their effort
does not relieve senior leaders of the responsibility to analyze information themselves as
part of their decision-making process. Preferably, they obtain information from many
sources which they then compare with the
analyses provided by the staff. General
Patton did this continuously. His "household cavalry" reported battlefield conditions
and information directly to him. Other
senior professionals have accomplished the
same result using liaison officers.

When analyzing information, senior
leaders guard against personal traits such
as stubbornness, arrogance, or overconfidence which may bias their analyses. It is
possible to be too analytical when only
limited amounts of information are available. Further, preconceived opinions and
mind-sets can interfere with the analysis process.
Effective decision making is not only a
problem of simple logic or routine synthesis
and analysis, but also timing. Even where
the indicated decision may be clear, it still
depends on timing for its effectiveness.
Senior leaders and commanders, therefore,
are sensitive about when to act. Knowing
when to make a decision or when to
do nothing can be as important as the
decision itself.
The key for senior leaders is to be timely,
clear, and consistent in their decision making. First, timeliness limits confusion in
fast-paced situations. Second, clarity provides certainty so that subordinates can
better perform their tasks and support in
the manner desired. Finally, consistency
provides the conviction to stick with the
decision in the absence of significant new
information or conditions which require a
new decision.
The German Army regulation on troop
leading, Truppenfuerhrung, first published
in 1933, states:
Without very good reasons a decision
once made should not be abandoned. However, in the vicissitudes of war an
inflexible maintenance of the original
decision may lead to great mistakes. Timely recognition of the conditions and the
time which call for a new decision is an
attribute of the art of leadership. (5)

Forecasting
At organizational level, forecasting is the
senior professional's broad projection of
what needs to be accomplished over extended periods of time to achieve some
anticipated result-the concept of the future.

29

CHAPTER 4

It is accomplished through the establishment
of a sound vision and the proper use of
staff planners.
The time included in a forecast can vary
from many years at major command level
to months at battalion level. The critical
aspect of forecasting is that senior profes"
sionals combine all of their conceptual skills
and consider all organizational options
which may lead to the desired outcome. The·
skill of forecasting, then, is in seeing it as
a set of continuous operations requiring
many decisions and input from the staff
and key subordinates in advance .of action.
Effectively accomplished, forecasting allows
senior leaders to think of today's actions
in terms of tomorrow's needs.
At the operational level, campaign planning is a type of forecasting activity. At the
tactical level, phased plans which visualize
various contingencies and specific battles.
approximate forecasting. An army commander in a campaign may think and forecast in terms of months, a corps commander
in weeks, while division and brigade commanders normally forecast in days and
hours. In peacetime, annual training plans
or force development plans represent means
of forecasting.

Creativity
Originality, not conventionality, is
one of the main pillars of
generalship. To do something that the
enemy does not expect, is not
prepared for, something which will
surprise him and disarm him morally.
To be always thinking ahead and to
be always peeping around corners. To
spy out the soul of one's adversary,
and to act in a manner which will
astonish and bewilder him, this is
generalship. . . . This is the
foundation of success.

p. -;. e. "?edl.eli

30

Creativity refers to the ability to find
workable, original, and novel solutions to
problems. As a skill, it provides senior
leaders with the capability to be innovative
and adaptive in fast-moving,. potentially
confusing situations. Its purpose is to find
practical solutions to unexpected or tough
military problems.
All exceptional leaders and commanders
have had a large measure of creative skills.
When faced with seemingly impossible problems, they developed solutions which not
only worked but turned the situation in
their favor. Observers refer to this as

CHAPTER 4

"breaking the code" -the relationship between the situation and pieces of information is seen in new or unusual ways.
A good example Of a creative combat
solution was the attack of von Rundstedt's
German Army Group through the heavily
forested Ardennes in May 1940. Against
superior allied forces, von Rundstedt unhinged the French and spearheaded an
invasion which led, in a scant sixty days,
to the expulsion of allied forces from the
continent of Europe. To master creative
skills, those in senior positions cannot be
satisfied with only rouiine solutions or subscribe solely to the concept of conventionality in peacetime and then expect to
be creative in war.

Intuition
Intuition skills are those quick and ready
insights which come from being prepared,
from study, and from concentration on critical issues. Emerging studies support the
position that intuition is a conceptual skill
and can be learned, to a large degree, if
one has the intellect arid discipline. Moreover, it is seen as a critical aid to enhancing decision-making skills because it
speeds up the process.
Chess players who eliminate whole
classes of moves and focus on one or two
options almost immediately are a case in
point. They have developed highly refined
decisionmaking, creativity, and forecasting
skills that enable them to rule out and
decide rapidly what is not possible. In so
doing, they increase the potential for 'making
a choice that will work.
For senior leaders, the key to success
in dealing with the rapid pace of modern
operations in peace or war is, first, to determine what options are not possible. They
continue refining this process until they are
left with only one or two options which
may work. They can then choose between
the remaining choices, confident that the
chances for success are increased.

Where uncertaintv and chaos are endemic, as on the battlefield, any activity
that systematically improves the opportunity
for a correct solution is useful. If practiced
to the point where the process is automatic,
all the better. Senior leaders have truly
disciplined their thought processes. This is
the essence and relevance of intuition skills.

COMPETENCY
Competency skills provide senior professionals with the confidence to be flexible,
the courage to face change, and the willingness to apply their conceptual skills fully.
Both the organization and the operational
world are more complex at senior levels.
There are more conflicting requirements and
options to consider. It is more difficult to
make the necessary cause and effect linkages to develop appropriate responses. Finally, it is impossible to influence directly
all activities required to ensure unit· success.
Those in senior positions who possess welldeveloped competency skills demonstrate the
required aptitudes, knowledge, and abilities
to establish the direction. for battlefield success. But competency skills can and must be
developed and practiced long before leaders
assume positions of senior responsibility.
Possessing appropriate competency skills, ·
therefore, is essential. They provide the
capability to know what is important and
what is useful. Moreover, the competency
of senior leaders influence their judgment
and the stature of their actions. The very
survival of their units and soldiers depends
on their competency skills.· Such skills determine the degree to which their orders, decisions, and projections of the future are
understood, accepted, and executed. Soldiers
have a right to expect their leaders to know
what they an'1 doing.· Senior professionals
who exhibit the appropriate competency
skills are resourceful and have energy, selfdiscipline, balance, and expertise.

31

CHAPTER 4

With the understanding that competency
skills build on basic tactical and technical
proficiency, the following competency skills
· ·will be discussed:
• Perspective.
• Endurance.
• Risk taking.

Generalship, at least in my case,
came not by instinct, unsought, but
by understanding, hard study and
brain concentration. Had it come
easily to me, I should not have done
it as well.
7.&. .4~

• Coordination.
• Assessment.

Perspective
Perspective skills allow one to rise above
detail and view a situation in its entirety.
They demand that senior leaders or commanders be able to look at an event or a requirement and contrast its present utility with
its long-term importance to establish its
context and relevance. Perspective skills
grow from a solid foundation of tactical and
technical skills. They are based on an appreciation for the lessons and insights of history, a conceptual ability to relate current
action to future needs, and an understanding
of organizations. At the same time, perspective skills are different. They are learned and
practiced specifically by senior professionals.
Those who lack appropriate perspective
skills typically pursue short-term goals without regard to long-term consequences. They
emphasize form over substance. They teach
the expedient at the expense of what is
correct. Their effect is to cause units and
soldiers to lose their professional balance.
'

Perspective is necessary to practice tactical and operational art. When correctly
mastered, perspective skills foster an ability
to determine quickly the context and relevance of an event. They provide those in
senior positions with the capability to reconcile the "art of the possible" with the dem~rnds of what is required in a specific
situation. A good example of establishing
context and relevancy from perspective occurred during the battle of Martain in

32

CHAPTER 4

August 1944, in one of the more gallant
battalion-level actions during World War II:

Risk Taking
Risk taking means making needed decisions in varying degrees of uncertainty.
Risks are necessary for outnumbered forces.
Risks are calculated decisions made carefully; they are not gambles. They are based
on a fundamental undertaking of the commander's intent, as the 1944 edition of .
FM 100-5 stated:
Every individual from the highest commander to the lowest private must always remember that inaction and neglect
of opportunities will warrant more severe
censure than an error of judgment in the
action taken. The criterion by which a
commander judges the soundness of his
own decision is whether it will further
the intentions of the higher commander.

Endurance
The ability to be present at critical places
and times, look to the well-being of soldiers,
and teach and develop subordinates depends
on solid endurance skills. Only with endurance can senior leaders or commanders
maintain patience, sense of humor, and
perspective while sharing the hardships and
frustrations of their units and soldiers.
Endurance skills have two componentsphysical and mental. The rigors of training
and war demand professionals in senior
positions who have strong bodies as well
as strong minds. As a competence skill,
endurance does not demand that senior
leaders maintain the ability to outperform
their soldiers. Rather,. continuing attention
to physical and mental conditioning is required. Only in this way will they maintain
the ability to withstand the wearing effects
of long months and even years of unrelenting stress and strain caused by constant training and operations. Senior
professionals who have good endurance are
energetic and involved, worthy of emulation,
and clear and fresh in thought and action.

Many times, only by taking reasonable risks can senior leaders or commanders
hope to succeed. There is never enough time
nor enough resources, and most choices
involve some risk. Further, there are no
certainties in war. As a competency skill,
therefore, ·risk taking t)oes not limit the
fact that risk exists. Instead, it makes the
reality of risk an opportunity, knowing that
the opponent has to contend with the
same difficulties.
General Patton observed repeatedly that
one should never take council of his fears.
He sought to understand risk and make it
work for him. In Patton's mind, the object
of highly developed risk-taking skills was
a purposeful sense of boldness. As Wavell
noted in Generals and Generalship, great
senior leaders and commanders. "must have
a spirit of adventure." (43)
How and when one risks is a matter of
professional choice. It depends on weighing
the potential cost against the desired payoff.
But the use of risk-taking skills assumes
. that senior leaders have the technical and
tactical competency to take the risk fo the
first place. Competent risk-takers know what
risks they are taking. They understand that
it is a matter of perspective. What may
appear· as boldness to one may appear as

33

rashness to another, Because risk taking
depends on competency, senior leaders seek
to hone all their professional skills so that
when they risk, their chances for success
are high.

Coordination
Coordination skills include activities designed to enhance the ability of elements
of the organization to work together. At
lower levels of leadership and command,
coordination skills are confined primarily
to activities which affect only a few units.
At more senior levels, particularly in joint
and combined environments, one must continue to demonstrate this competency by
broadening the ability to include activities
internal and external to the organization.
Internally, senior professionals create
units and teams that. understand and can
respond. Externally, they articulate the problems, positions, ethos, and philosophy of
their organization so that its activities receive the necessary support. In effect, those
at senior levels are prepared to act as publicrelations coordinators. General Eisenhower,
in Crusade in Europe, recognized the importance of coordination skills:
The teams and staffs through which the
modern commander absorbs information
and exercises his authority must be a
beautifully interlocked, smooth-working
mechanism. Ideally, the whole should be
practically a single mind. (75)

Senior leaders and commanders who demonstrate appropriate coordination skills are
goal-oriented, yet cooperative; firm, yet understanding. To outsiders they personify the
organization and represent its positions
with skill, concern, and competency.

Assessment
Assessment skills are important to senior
professionals because they provide the capability to determine the condition of organizations and then develop strategies to

34

respond to identified strengths and shortcomings, Properly formed assessment skills
ensure useful feedback that allows the organization to be self~correcting and selfrenewing. Good assessment skills are one
important source for effective organizational learning.
The skill of senior leaders or commanders
at assessing the condition of their organization is· a major component of their reputation as competent leaders. It can have
an enormous impact. Assessment and the
generation of its associated statistics can
produce useful insights. as well as dysfunctional side effects. Properly employed
assessment skills can inform, educate, and
motivate. Inappropriately used assessment
can cause senior leader and commander
frustration and ethical dilemmas.
To employ assessment skills effectively,
senior leaders first determine the need and
cost for undertaking a particular form of
assessment. Then they specifically determine
the purpose for the assessment. Is it to
evaluate progress? Do they desire to compare one component of the organization
with another? Or do they desire to evaluate
the adequacy of the systems supporting the
organization? Finally, they clearly communicate to the organization the reasons for
use of assessment. (For more on assessment
see Appendix D, Assessment.)

COMMUNICATIONS
The potential for ambiguity and chaos
created by change, especially change caused
by the variable pace of operations, presents
special communications challenges to senior
professionals. In internal organizational
terms, the impact has been to make units /
and soldiers once again the most vulnerable
part of the organization in peace or war.
External to the organization, change has
created the requirement for those at senior
. levels to be expert at communicating upward, horizontally, and to the public to
generate needed support for required actions.

CHAPTER 4

If units and soldiers are to succeed,
senior leaders or commanders need to apply
a variety of communications skills: To lead,
command, and train the organization successfully, what they know may not be as
important as how they know and how they
communicate this fact to all who may have
an impact on. the organization's ability to
implement the vision ..

Communications skills· impact on a wide
range of activities. They specify the quality
and type of internal and external information that senior· leaders receive for analysis and decision. Those professionals who
communicate that they cannot handle "bad
news" will not receive bad news. Further,
communications skills are the primary
means by which information is passed to
units and soldiers about senior professionals.
In addition, communications are the way
senior professionals show their ability to
conceptually and competently deal with all
issues that impact on the organization.
At a basic level, communications skills
are the primary way senior leaders show
they care. Through personal presence in the
organization and by communicating, they
demonstrate solidarity with their soldiers.
In contacts upward, horizontally, and with
the public, senior professionals demonstrate
they understand the broad impact organizational activities have.
Senior professionals who have welldeveloped communications skills are generally soldiers who understand themselves,
have a good grasp of the situation, and
genuinely put their organizations and the
mission before their own needs. They can
inspire and motivate soldiers. They can
bring a smile to a subordinate's face during
a moment of tension. They can generate
needed external support in moments of
crises. And they can lift morale and engender confidence with the wave of an arm.
The following vignette from Alden Hatch's
George Patton: General in Spurs illustrates
graphically the effect of a senior leader who

understood the importance of commum·
cations skills:

Good communications skills enhance public support and organizational performance,
morale, teamwork, and unity. Senior leaders
with effective communications skills are
compassionate, trusting, inspirational, and
thoughtful-they care! These attributes· flow
·
from five communications skills:
• Inteq~ersonal.
o Listening.
• Language.
• Teaching.
• Persuasion.

. Interpersonal
Good interpersonal skills promote trust
in organizations. They provide the confidence subordinates have in their leaders;
they validate their commitment. First, senior
professionals with good interpersonal skills
know themselves. They understand that
they are removed from most of the units
and teams who must carry out their orders.
Further, they know their own biases; frustrations, ambitions, and desires and strive
to ensure that they do not negatively influence organizational actions. Finally,
·senior professionals recognize that personal
mannerisms, behavidral quirks, and demeanor are as important to· effective interpersonal communications as the words
they use.

35

CHAPTER 4

Because senior leaders understand themselves, they know that others possess the
same personal baggage. They weigh every
interpersonal contact and reaction for its
meaning, whether an order to their units
or a combat action against the enemy. They
knov.' interpersonal contact provides important information they can gain no other
way. They execute their own interpersonal
communications with a view of their impact
in mind. They seek to promote results, initiative, and the warrior spirit. The following
vignette from Adolph von Schell's Battle
Leadership illustrates this point effectively:

If senior leaders take the small amount
of extra time required to ensure that their
interpersonal communications skills are
maintained, they will have organizations
that see them as caring leaders and that• Work as a team.
• Are responsive to orders.
• Operate in a climate of trust.
• Operate with a minimum of reliance on
formal communications systems and external control mechanisms.
• Are less vulnerable to the effects of rumor
or disruptive informal communications
systems.

Listening
Effective listening skills are vital to any
communications process. To use conceptual
skills to their fullest, senior leaders need
every bit of information the public and their
soldiers, staffs, units, and superiors can
provide. Further, to bring their competency
skills to bear, they need reliable information
to put it in perspective and establish its
context relative to ongoing events.
All too often, senior leaders and commanders, through press of time or lack of
sensitivity, do not listen well or their attention span is distressingly short. The
result can be decisions or orders that have
to be changed or corrected at some later
point. At best, lack of effective listening
skills wastes time. At worst, it may cause
confusion and convey the impression that
the senior leader does not care.
Good listening skills are also important
when developing units and subordinates.
Unless senior professionals understand
what they must do, based on information
they have collected by observing and listening, they will very likely waste their own
energy and the training time of units
and subordinates.
Senior leaders with well-developed listening skills recognize that it is the quality
of listening that counts rather than the
amount. They understand they must practice

36

CHAPTER 4

listening skills to realize their full benefit.
They are expert at picking the right people
to listen to and are able to listen for the
key messages. Therefore, they give their
complete attention to the source providing
the information. Further, senior profes"
sionals keep distractions that affect an
ability to listen to a minimum and refrain
from interrupting. Finally, they organize
t:b.eir own thoughts before responding.

Language
Good oral and written language skills
are critical. Language is the primary means
used to communicate orders and intent.
Moreover, it is the vehicle used to teach
subordinates, train units, and indicate understanding of messages that are received.
Finally, language determines, to a large
degree, how the image of the organization
is transmitted to outside observers.
Because senior leaders and commanders
are removed from direct contact with most
of those whom they lead, their opportunity
to correct a language problem, once it
occurs, is very limited. Therefore, their
own use of language must be crisp, ·precise,
and appropriate. Messages must be couched
in terms which the intended receiver can
understand. The use of inappropriate jargon
or unwarranted emotional phrases can negate effective receipt of an intended message altogether.

.Teaching
Senior leaders and commanders are
teachers. Their greatest legacy is their experi.ence and knowledge, honed and sharpened
over years of study and development. Failure to pass on the lessons learned to those
who follow is equivalent to a violation of
a senior professional's ethical responsibility
to take all measures to ensure that soldiers
and units are ready and able to fight.
Teaching skills are also important in
other ways. First, they are the most effective means senior professionals have of
expressing that they care. Further, teaching
is an important way that the procedures

and skills senior professionals want emphasized are passed on to the members of the
organization. Senior leaders who teach give
meaning to doctrine and techniques.
Senior leaders with good teaching skills
einphasize informal teaching methods such
as coaching over more formal means whenever possible. Further, they are positive in
their teaching approach. Moreover, they
choose teaching situations where the lessons
can be put to use immediately. Finally,
senior professionals who care ensure that
their subordinates also develop and practice
good teaching skills.
Coaching is an informal teaching technique usually used to pass on experience
and lessons learned about a specific activity
or event. Coaching adds quality and depth
to the communications process. Normally
a give and take process where a person
can question and test, coaching represents
the most effective, and most positive, way
to develop. subordinates. In specific
shuations it is the principal way values and
s~nse of shared culture are transmitted.
In sum, senior professionals with welldeveloped teaching skills are also seen as
mentors and coaches by those with whom
they interact. Their efforts create a communications· environment where learning is
fun, quicker, and more lasting.

Persuasion
The most effective way to deal with external or internal resistance and the other
irritants associated with leadership in large
organizations, particularly at joint and combined levels, is to possess well-developed
persuasion skills. First, senior leaders or
commanders who use persuasion involve
other individuals or groups. Second, persuasion is a competence-building skill. When
persuading, senior professionals communicate the aetails of their reasoning process
and the reasons for their intent. Third, persuasion is a positive activity that engenders
cooperation rather .than hostility,. Fourth,
when using persuasion, senior leaders share
responsibility for the projected activity.

37

CHAPTER4 ---~-------------"'----------

.

.

~

. •.

. .

Finally, when using persuasion, senior
leaders maY obtain information resulting
in increased knowledge and better decisions.
In some circumstances persuasion may
be inappropriate, or time and conditions
may prevent its use .. For example, incompetency must be dealt with directly. If senior
leaders or commanders are skilled and consistent, subordi11ates. will see the reasons
for the action. In. Crusade in Europe,
General Eisenhower observed that a senior
professional's success "will be measured
more by his ability to lead and persuade·

than by his adherence to fixed· notions of
arbitrary command practices." (75)
Explaining change and establishing a
need for that change test a senior commander's persuasion skills, yet are vital
both in peace and war. Building consensus,
working change through key people in the
organization, and explaining constantly to
a variety of public audiences are some ways
to persuade in peace. During war, change
requires a less subtle and more dynamic,
direct approach, yet persuasion skills are
needed nonetheless.

SKILLS AND GENIUS
Even ~enior leaders .with all the skills
needed to meet any situation are not guaranteed success. A higher-order skill that
provides senior professionals with the capability to deal with the moral domain of war
must also be manifested. It has no name.
In On War, when discussing the attributes needed by senior professionals,
Clausewitz noted:
Any complex activity, if it is to be carried
on with any degree of virtuosity, calls
for appropriate gifts of intellect and temperament. If they are outstanding and
reveal themselves in exceptional achievement, their. possessor. is called a "genius.'' (100)
In Clausewitz's mind, the necessity for genius derives from the fact that war is a
test of wills. Moreover, it is won or lost in
the minds of men. What is really required
to succeed is the skill to develop moral
superiority above and beyond any conceptual, competency, or communications
skills. The ultimate challenge for senior ·
professionals is to take all their skills and

38

merge them with a sound ethical and moral
base, in order. to ho.pe to develop this skill.
There is, then, a professional skill that
is not directly related to any specific group
of skills or explained directly. Instead, it
depends on all skills and represents a synthesis. It grows and develops deep within
· the senior leader. It is formed as a result
of the total experience of a leader or commander over time. When manifested, this
special professional skill represents the
effect of the moral dimension fused with
conceptual, competency, and communications
~kills. The fusion creates a higher-order
skill that characterizes senior professionals
who are called geniuses.
Everything comes together-conceptual,
competency; and communications skills;
ethics; and values. Through the manifestation of genius, the required skills of senior
professionals are made complete. They have
the potential to be arbitrators of the moral
domain of war, gain moral ascendency, and
be true determinants of success for their
soldiers and units. Skills are the proper
beginning and genius the appropriate end.

CHAPTER 4

SUMMARY
Possessing highly developed professional
skills is a special responsibility of senior
leaders. Such skills are the primary source
of their effectiveness and represent the

knowledge base required to implement their
vision. Three groups of skills· represent the
specific skills senior leaders or commanders
must have. They are:

Conceptual

Competency

Communications

Decision making
Forecasting
Creativity
Intuition

Perspective
Endurance
Risk taking
Coordination
Assessment

Interpersonal
Listening
Language
Teaching
Persuasion

Not all skills will be needed in every
situation, but these skills underpin attributes that characterize successful senior professionals, providing the capability for them
to mold, train, and lead soldiers and units
effectively. In skilled senior leaders, all

professional skills are integrated with a
sound ethical and moral base, creating a
higher-order skill that provides the capability to deal with the moral domain of war.
The skill has no name but its possessors
are called geniuses.

CONCEPTUAL
• DECISIONMAKING
• FORECASTING
• CREATIVITY
• INTUITION

-..._

--__ _
----

._____-~-~-·iti-~~,,.,,_,,,,_,kJ.~
COMPETENCY

COMMUNICATIONS

• PERSPECTIVE
•ENDURANCE
• RISK TAKING
• COORDINATION
• ASSESSMENT

• INTERPERSONAL
• LISTENING
•LANGUAGE
•TEACHING
• PERSUASION

\=-:-

L..:--~;;..-:

~_:----

89

CHAPTER 5

Command Processes

BATTLE OF ALAMEIN
2

~

A good military leader must dominate the events
which encompass him; once events get the better of
him he will lose the confidence of his men, and when
that happens he ceases to be of value as a leader.
";uU ~ 'B~ ~. ~
THE DILEMMA
In taking the actions necessary to
implement their vision, senior leaders or
commanders face a dilemma. They know
that any activity which contributes to
mission accomplishment must be part of a
total organizational effort to achieve the
desired command effect. At the same time,
they know that large organizations are
complex and several command processes
must be brought to bear. The proper application of these processes, like the skills
discussed in Chapter 4, represent a key
part of the knowledge base required to
implement the vision.
How to blend all processes to achieve
proper command effect becomes the operative question. History suggests the exercise
of the command process itself. In contrast,

40

unit demands require application of the
leadership process to achieve some measure
of effectiveness. Finally, to use resources
efficiently, senior leaders employ management and control processes.
Contrary to past dictates, reliance on a
single process will not provide the support
to sustain units and soldiers over the time
needed to accomplish what is required by
the vision. Further, unit tasks and
situations vary so widely that the use of
single approaches breeds rigidity rather
than the flexibility required to concentrate
the efforts of many soldiers and units.
The problem is further complicated by
the notion of time itself. It establishes the
permissible limits within which proper

4

CHAPTER 5

command effect can be achieved in peace
and war. To succeed, those in senior positions have to learn fast, recognize the
constraints of time, cope with change, and
achieve results rapidly but in context with
the situation and their vision. (See Appendix E, Time Management.)
The challenge for senior leaders is to
know how to take the four processes and
integrate the best of each into a personal

strategy for running large units. The goal
is to leave no doubt in the minds of those
who follow that the overall focus is timely
action and sustained professional excellence.
Achieving the def;!ired organizational comm and effect requires understanding the
processes of command; control, leadership,
and management and having a concept for
their integration. This chapter provides the
necessary knowledge base.

THE PROCESSES.
Four processes-command, ·control,
leadership, management-are important
to senior professionals. There is no fundamental conflict in their collective use by
senior professionals to achieve their vision.
But it is their responsibility to know what
they are and how to employ them properly.

COMMAND AND CONTROL
Command is the primary means
whereby the vision is, imparted to the
organization. From a command perspective, the element of analysis is the
organization. The senior professional's
primary focus shifts from individual units
and soldiers to issues which affect everyone-from detailed problem solving to
synthesis and integration.
·
Command is the world of perspective and
timely action. Its characteristics are• Well-formed vision and clearly communicated intent.
• Clearly understood goals and objectives.
• Quality, low-volume communications
throughout the command.
• Concept expression of tasks.
• Emphasis on success and rewards.
• Focus on the future ..
• Timely involvement to ensure results.

The principal challenge senior professionals face is the inherent complexity of
the command process. To command is to
risk! The size of the organization may
work against them. Moreover, dispersion
caused by size increases uncertainty.
Finally, policies· and procedures that provide direction and achieve results may
create tension.
Size is a natural source of strain and
tends to dilute the effect of command. It
breeds complexity and specialization. A
direct relation exists between the size of a
command and its tendency to be rigid.
Dispersion increases the distance of the led
from those who influence their actions,
well-being, and even their fate. Individual
anonymity increases and so does uncertainty. Management and control tools used
to deal with dispersion only increase concern. Finally, formal policies and procedures create resistance because of size
and dispersion.
The result of effective command is
direction which helps produce results. It
is the coordinated effect of many teams
and units in which soldiers think, act,
achieve, and do accomplish .the mission.
Further, it is a flexible process where
verification of its correctness has always
been battlefield success.
In contrast, control is a process used
to establish limits and provide structure.

41

CHAPTER 5

Its purpose is to deal with the uncertainties inherent in organizational operations. As a process its effect is to serve
primarily as a compensating, correcting
device for command.
Where command is of high quality, control is potentially very useful. It can have
impact because its use is truly the exception. But when command is of low
quality, control can be overused, creating
more tension, centralization of power, and
confusion than it reduces. Because it is
seen as a way to reduce risk, its use
becomes routine. The control process is
characterized by• High-volume, routine communications.
• Coordination activities between elements
internal and external to a unit having
related responsibilities.
• Structure, which limits uncertainty.
• Emphasis on efficiency as a goal.
That control is characterized by highvolume, routine communications suggests
its housekeeping function. Many recurring
activities must be counted, checked, and
surveyed so that resources can be allocated
to satisfy unit needs. The best control processes in organizations are those that keep
routine as routine and save command time
to deal with tactical, operational, or
administrative concerns. A personnel
status report is one high-volume, recurring
activity. Without knowing how many people are present, no reasonable estimate of
needs can be prepared. Only when such
activities begin to drive unit actions do
they become pro bl ems.
Coordination, as a control characteristic,
highlights those activities between levels of
the organization that ensure related
players are operating together. Intelligence
summaries and ground and air fire support
plans are key examples. These activities
are normal and proper to ensure that
everyone is ready to support the established intent. But when the detail required

42

or the ·frequency of coordination becomes
the overriding aim, it can become destabilizing to unit effort.
Structure, as a positive characteristic
of control, is critical for it reduces the
uncertainty associated with large-scale
operations. Areas of operations specified
by map overlays, :r:ules of engagement,
and report formats are examples of control
structure. Such structure provides a base
for exercising command or establishing
responsibility. But when overlays are prepared without an appreciation of the
situation, when rules of engagement
constrain leaders from applying judgment,
or when reports are rejected because of
format errors, then problems occur.
The final characteristic of control-that
it emphasizes efficiency-is its least understood and most important feature. If not
balanced with other organizational needs,
the drive for efficiency can become an end
in itself. It replaces command effectiveness
as an objective.
Effectiveness and efficiency may
become adversarial concepts rather than
supporting one another. Efficiency tends
to address form. Effectiveness suggests
substance or total outcome. Both are
necessary to achieve success. Effectiveness
directs attention to results such as
achieving organizational goals and
accomplishing the mission. Efficiency
addresses how well the process was
accomplished and is part of, but does not
necessarily address, the outcome. When
effectiveness and efficiency are confused
or allowed to conflict with one another,
they tear at the moral, operational, and
administrative fabric of organizations.

LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT
Central to. any discussion of s.enior
leadership and command is concern with
the relationship between leading and
managing. Often we do not devote sufficient attention to the challenges of being

CHAPTER 5

both leaders ·.and managers in a warrfor
profession. Moreover, the. Army is sometimes accused of overemphasizing management efficiency at the expense of fostering
the warrior' spirit.
On one side, it is argued that the
pressure's· and incentives of' modern
operations are overwhelmingly biased in
favor of the manager and technocrat. The
managerial inflµence then acts to stifle
growth of ·.a warrior· spirit. Among those
factors seen as operating against the
development of a warrior spirit are: great
pressure to· stay on budget, be efficient,
economize, centralize, and intensively
monitor resources; increasing faith in
technology and automation;·· and a focus
on creative comforts, gender neutrality,
and family issues to improve peacetime
recru.itnient and retention.
'
.i

Senior professionals blend the best of
command, ·control, leadership, and
management into a personal strategy
for organizational success.

On the other side of the ledger, AirLand Battle doctine, warfighting,. training,
force development, and special operations
forces, initiatives, and programs create
strains that stretch available resources.
These focuses 13.re seen as dependent on a
healthy warrior spirit; yet they demand
leadership to make sense out of what sometimes appears to be management chaos.
If those in senior positions are to foster
creative, innovative, I"isk-taking leaders
among. their subordii;iates, they must
resolve the confliet of leadership and
management by balancing their . use appropriately. We need management skills for
efficiency. We need warrior skills to win.
Just as command and control have their
place, .so do leadership and IJ1ahagement.
Orice the uses of leadership and management are understood, the importance of
b.oth processes becomes self-evident.

. .. I think the Army would make a
se~ious mistake if we made a
distinction and said, uYou are a
manager, and you are a leader."
..• So my philosophy is that we are·
all leaders! We also must be
responsible managers or stewards of
resources entrusted to us. We would
make a serious mistake to think that
we could be one, and not the other.
~ P°'- 'ri. 7()~. pr..

Management focuses primarily on the
<;:onceptual aspects of behavior in activities
such as planning, organizing, or budgeting.
In contrast, leadership deals with the interpersonal relationships between the leader
and the led. Management, then, is a set

43

CHAPTER 5

of activities or behaviors performed by
those in senior positions to acquire, direct,
integrate, or allocate resources to accomplish goals and tasks.
When viewed from this perspective, soldiers and units are properly considered to
be most valuable resources. Conceptual
activities undertaken by senior professionals to ensure efficient use of soldiers
and units are thoughtful, purposeful, and
rational. These activities are managementoriented in nature.
Although separate processes, management and leadership are almost never
employed separately. Many senior-level
activities require simultaneous use of the
leadership and management processes. For
example, when planning or organizing,
appropriate leadership practices are used
concurrently to motivate soldiers or units
and to prepare them. for employment.
Without the personal component that
leadership provides, there will be no hope
of implementing the conceptual management decision. A mistake often made is
putting all energy into the conceptual
processes required to make a good management decision, while forgetting all
about the necessity also to lead and
motivate to sustain the warrior spirit.
Like control, management helps provide
limits and structure that reduce uncertainty. It too can lead to an overemphasis
of efficiency that is just as strong as that
found with control. Because management
is founded on conceptual processes, failure
to balance it with sound application of
leadership and exercise of command can
have lasting consequences, such as• Focusing activity on only what is quantifiable-statistics, reports, and data.
• Making simplistic judgments about the
meaning of information.
• Overlooking the importance of intangible
factors that are difficult to quantify but
are vital in combat.

44

• Allowing the neatness and regularity of
management solutions to give a deadly
false sense of security.
• Not personally getting out and seeing
the battle when it is appropriate.
General L.K. Truscott, Jr., commenting
on the tragic events at Kasserine Pass in
Africa early in World War II, observed in
Command Mission:

Leadership is an influence process and
refers to motivational relations between the
leader and the led. Organizational success
is an outcome of many activities, processes, and influences, one of which is
leadership. Senior. professionals can and do
lead, but success in large organizations
generally depends on combined command
effect in addition to the interpersonal
inputs which characterize the basic leadership process.
When one distinguishes between the
leadership process and the results of organizational activities in this manner, one
can begin to understand how senior profesc
sionals might be successful, yet not be
strong leaders. Conversely, one can visualize why otherwise able senior professionals
do not always succeed. At the senior level,
leadership is not always dominant. As a
result, one cannot assume that good leadership and successful organizational performance are always one and the same.

CHAPTER 5

A strong relationship does remain, however, between good leadership and unit ·
success at senior levels. Good senior leadership increases the likelihood of success.
Moreover, success itself, whether the result
of good or lucky decisions, increases. soldier
confidence in the leadership ability of
senior leaders and commanders.
This seeming paradox develops from the
fact that senior-level leadership is also an
indirect process while leadership at junior
levels is almost always direct. In effect,
the indirect influence process for smart
commanders provides the potential for
more than one positive leadership outcome
for a single activity.
Organizational success enhances the
ability of senior professionals to influence
subordinates in three ways. First, units
and soldiers ascribe various positive
characteristics to leaders who are

successful. This acts to increase the
stature and respect given to senior
professionals. Second, it increases the
likelihood that soldiers will adopt and
internalize the values and methods of
operation of those at senior levels. Finally,
success alters the view senior professionals
have of themselves. and their own ability.
It increases self-confidence.
·
Self-confidence is important because
followers can sense whether leaders have
or lack professional confidence. If subordinates determine that senior leaders are
confident,. they tend to trust their orders
and guidance. At least, organizational
resistance is minimized. In the ideal
situation, followers will act based solely on
their belief in those at senior levels. To exerc
cise effective leadership, therefore, senior
leaders and commanders develop organizational value systems that reduce the need
to control, punish, or demand compliance.

INTEGRATION OF THE PROCESSES
Senior leaders. perform four functions to
implement their vision and achieve proper
command effect. First they communicate
their intent and provide direction so that
others can understand and respond. Next,
they establish the structure to focus effort.
Then they plan and organize the activities
necessary to get results; Finally they motivate and influence to develop and sustain
the organizational purpose required to
accomplish the mission. ·
·
To communicate their vision and provide direction, they exercise the command
process. The establishment of structure
requires that they employ the control process. When they plan and organize, senior
leaders use the management process.
Finally, when motivating and influencing
others, they are leading.
While these are separate functions, in
practice they are blended concurrently and

continuously to deal with rapidly changing
situations and the time constraints which
are a normal part ·of military operations.
The pace at which decisions are made
demands a well-developed capability to
integrate all professional processes into a
single style.
The amount of actual command, control, leadership, or management used
depends on how leaders integrate the
processes. Further, it is based on their
training, education, and view of the world.
There is no preferred solution. Styles can
and will vary as long as professionals
remember the objective is organizational
command effectiveness in peace or war.
The fact remains, however, that all competent senior leader command styles contain
elements of all four processes. If they did
not, adequate discharge of the senior
leader functions would be impossible.

45

CHAPTER 5

Moreover, to neglect to use all processes
as part of a style of operation could result
in situations where important opportunities
are overlooked.
· The interaction of the processes can be
likened to the dynamic relationship of a
rider to a horse. The rider is command.
The reins, stirrups, and spurs are the control process. The conceptual means the
rider uses to plan and organize is the
management process. The relationship
between horse and rider is leadership.
Finally, the results achieved by the horse
and rider represent the organizational
command effect. ·
If the rider has an idea of where they
are headed (vision), then a simple voice
instruction (command) and a gentle tug on
the reins (control) are all that is needed to
initiate action. Concurrently, if the rider
has considered the limitations of the horse
and has planned· for replenishment (management), and a good relationship exists
'between horse and rider (leadership), then
.the chances are they will achieve .the
desired result (command effect). Further,
as the situation changes the rider can
vary the use of the processes to maintain
forward movement and momentum toward
'the objective.
If the horse and rider have no relationship, the rider can use the reins vigorously,
manage the situation, and try to gain
some measure of command effect. Conversely, without any control, if there is a
good relationship between horse and rider,
the rider still has a chance to guide the
horse by voice directions .. The problem is,
of course, for how long? And more important, how effective will the horse and rider
combination be in each case?

To some the rider who uses control and
management processes may appear to be
more efficient and thus more effective. In
contrast, to others the rider who simply
uses the command and leadership pro,c
cesses may appear to be the winner. In ·
fact, neither rider would achieve much for.
his effort. First, there are too many

46

variables to conclude that the rider who
relied only on control and management
processes would get anything more than a
flurry of activity., since he could not break
the code and communicate the intent of
what he wanted the horse to do. Second,
the rider who relied only on command
and leadership would have similar
problems since he could not gain any
control or manage the horse. The continual
use of one or two tools alone will cause
,. them to lose their effect, and their use no
longer can be increased sufficiently to
sustain activity.
The same holds true when using only
one or two of the four processes with units
and soJdiers. The difference. with units and
soldiers is that the period of effectiveness
for any one of the professional processes,
particularly on the battlefield, will be
much shorter. The use of the processes,
therefore, must be ~ontinµous to sustain
the organization over time.
The foregoing ,suggests some very
important relationships between command, control, leadership, and management and desired. behavior. There is a
relationship between the use of controi
and management processes and the reliability or predicta,bility of organizational
behavior. The more professional and excellent the actions of units ·and soldiers, the
less the need to resort to .control and
management processes.
:.

.

'·

A· relationship also exists between all
four processes. The idea of a relationship
between horse and rider mentioned in the
.a,naJogy suggests a qualitative aspect to
the problem. The more actions that are
understood, the higher the quality of the
refationship; therefore, the less the rider.
has to resort to other process.es to compensate. In organizational terms the
relationship can he expressed as . follows:
the clearer the vision and the expressed
intent of the senior professional and the
stronger his organizational influence, the
less' he needs to use management and control processes. In the extreme, where
subordinates have fully internalized the

CHAPTER 5

vision of the senior leader or commander,
formal controls and management procedures can be limited because subordinates
have internalized them also.
The solution to the problem is, therefore, to see the pursuit of results as a
variable objective which depends on the
situation. Those in senior positions continually evaluate the use of the four

processes with a full appreciation of the
situation. Then they determine which processes should dominate and which should
support. Next they apply all processes to
achieve effect and results. Finally, through
active involvement with the organization,
senior professionals seek to communicate
their ideas so that they can be internalized
and to be tough enough to ensure their
desires are carried out.

SUMMARY
Appropriate organizational command
effect can only be developed when senior
leaders use all four processes of command,
control, leadership, and management and
relate them properly to the situation.
Command is a process used to communicate intent and provide direction to
achieve results. Control is a process
designed to establish limits and provide
structure. Management is a conceptual
process which facilitates planning and
efficiency. Leadership is a personal
influence process that provides purpose
and motivates. Two relationships are
critical. First, the more professional and
excellent the actions of units and soldiers,
the less the need to use control and
management and the more command and
leadership can be used. Second, the clearer
the vision and intent and the stronger the

organizational influence, the less senior
leaders need to use management and control processes.
The key to effective use of the ·four
processes is to integrate them all into a
personal style that facilitates organizational command effect. Evaluation and use
of the processes must be conducted with a
full appreciation of this reality. Then
those at senior levels must determine
which processes should dominate and
which should support. Next, they must
apply the processes accordingly to achieve
the desired command effect. Finally, they
must continually strive to improve the
quality of their relationship with their
organizations so that their methods will be
internalized and the formal use of the processes limited.

COMMAND

CONTROL

LEADERSHIP

MANAGEMENT

47

o
y or
an
r
o
its officers even in defeat: whose physical power, like
the muscles of an athlete, has been steeled by training in privation and effort: a force that regards such
efforts as a means to victory rather than a curse on
its cause: that is mindful of all these duties and
qualities by virtue of the single powerful idea of the
honor of its arms-such an army is imbued with the
true military spirit.
OVERVIEW
An effective military organization has
life and character. It lives, breathes,
moves, fights, and wins without fearing
its own collapse or ruin. If bloodied, it
heals itself. If hungry, it finds the means
to feed itself. If it suffers, it does so with
dignity and pride. In the final analysis, it
is testimony to the skill of the senior
leader and proof that he possesses the

48

vision and knowledge to employ the orga-·
nization correctly. It is the kind of adversary that a less-practiced opponent always
hopes to avoid.
Senior leaders or commanders are central figures in the life of large military
organizations. They build solid teams by
ensuring that objectives are established,

CHAPTER 6

plans are made, internal structure is developed, and the organization is trained.
Further, they fix responsibility; provide
purpose, direction, and motivation for individual and unit activities; and adjust the
operations of the organization to meet
internal and external challenges.
Most commonly, military organizations
are depicted as .block charts or wiring diagrams arranged according to rational logic.
While such a view is useful when clarifying relationships, it says little about the

human system it represents. It overlooks
the basic truth that it is the spirit of units
and soldiers which makes the difference.
To understand the, organizational context in which senior leaders must operate,
this chapter addresses the characteristics,
components, and building of the teams
necessary for organizational success. The
aim is to. provide the organizational perspective required to convert the vision into
action.

CHARACTERISTICS
Large military organizations are
complex. The number of activities to be
accomplished demands multiple levels of
leadership and functional specialization.
Formal structure varies within the organization and is tailored to specific missions.
Moreover, organizations vary with respect
to size, geographical dispersion, mission,
and personnel.
In spite of the diversity and complexity,
several characteristics can be seen in all
successful organizations whether they are
combat, support, school, or tables of distribution and allowances. These characteristics sustain the organization as it meets
its mission responsibilities. An effective
organization is adaptive, cohesive, and
resilient.

ADAPTIVE
Good organizations are adaptive. They
quickly change missions and shift resources when the situation demands. They
are always prepared to exploit success
and move rapidly to overcome mistakes.
Policies and procedures are designed to
promote agility. Understanding and insight
exist among the members of the organization concerning objectives, missions, and
tasks. Soldiers share a common identity
and purpose. While the personality of
leaders is important, unit depth is such
that responsibility shifts easily when
requirements change or leaders are lost.

In operation, an adaptive organization's
procedures are simple and uncluttered.
They are directed toward· searching out,
gauging accurately, and interpreting correctly the military situation. Information is
acquired and passed rapidly and reliably.
Members routinely exchange information
and seek to keep misunderstandings to a
minimum. Relevant information important
for decisions and action· flows easily from
one unit to another. The organization functions and operates in a manner that
ensures unified effort.

COHESIVE
Good organizations are also cohesive.
They share strong bonds and feel in gs of
unity. Loyalty to the unit and its members
is strong, exerting a powerful positive
influence on performance. Soldiers' pride in
their skills and capabilities is intimately
related to their membership in the unit.
Organizational traditions and codes are
valued personal guides. Units and soldiers,
willingly and with zeal, regulate their
behavior to conform to organizational
needs. Moreover, the organization responds
by ensuring that mechanisms exist to provide stability and to give rewards for
excellent performance.
Cohesion, in turn, fosters proficiency
extending to all facets of operations, from
excelling at the basics to taking care of
soldiers and equipment. Routinely, units

49

CHAPTER 6

have the capability and the technical
competence to execute successfully tasks
arising from the demands of the tactical
and operational situation. Units and
soldiers have the required discipline to
persevere.
Proficiency is founded on tough,
demanding training, realistically conducted
by competent leaders who teach the skills
required to win. It is reinforced by keeping
soldiers informed about what is expected.
Further, it challenges everyone to grow
and develop. Finally, it is sustained by an
attitude that all members, from general
officer to private are part of the organization and all bear the obligation to
adhere to its standards, requirements for
competency, and spirit of discipline.

RESILIENT

GOOD ORGANIZATIONS ARE
ADAPTIVE. COHESIVE.
AND RESILIENT.

Combined, adaptability and cohesion
provide large organizations with the
capability to sustain themselves-they are
resilient. They overcome temporary setbacks without getting discouraged, always
looking for the edge that will regain the
winning tempo. Adversity pulls the organization together rather than tearing it apart.
Soldiers and units call on reserves of
strength not forecast or planned. Innovation and anticipation are common
responses. Leaders share the. hardships
and successes of their soldiers. The
organization seeks opportunities and challenge knowing that it can rebound. All
are positive and they are winners. Resilience thus provides for a number of specific capabilities.
First, resilient organizations have a
well-developed ability to learn rapidly.
They gather information about their own
actions, assess it, use it, and then change
according to what is learned. The effect is
team effort which emphasizes• Excellent individual and unit training.
• Timely communications practices that
provide soldiers and units with the
information and knowledge necessary for
intelligent action.

50

CHAPTER!:6
• Commonsense procedures and practices.
• Opportunity for soldiers and units to
succeed.
·
Second, resilient organizations sustain
the required conditions for trust, confidence, and opportunity to succeed. Soldiers
have favorable attitudes toward other
soldiers, their leaders, their duties,.· and the
organization. Because of the positive attitudes, strong values and standards of
behavior about important aspects of performance are enhanced. The result is• Good leadership practices at all levels.
• Opportunity for each soldier to feel a
part of the organization.
• Pride in belonging.
• Delegation of responsibility and
authority.

Third, resiliency fosters unity of purpose. Friction and conflict are minimized
or brought into the open for resolution.
Because soldiers and units have internalized formal control mechanisms, their
use is limited. The ability to sustain a
high level of motivation is enhanced. The
effect is• Organizational systems composed of
interlocking units effectively led by capable officers and served by efficient
communications.
• Recognition systems that provide for
reward, incentive, and approval of good
work of both groups and individuals.
• Procedures that inform personnel about
individual and unit progress.
• Environments where innovation flourishes.

THE COMPONENTS
A military organization consists of several components providing the foundation
for its ability to accomplish the required
missions. One is its structure. This gives
the organization its form and influences
the way its members interact: Structure is
formal or informal. Another component of
an organization is its soldiers-the led.
The way they respond to leaders and the
skill with which they accomplish tasks
when operating within the organization's
structure ultimately determine its effectiveness. The third component of an ·organization is its leaders. The skills, competency, and personal resources that leaders
bring to an organization determine how
the structure will be used to solve problems, care for the led, and generate appropriate organizational action. Although
these components interact, to understand
their organizational importance, they will
be addressed separately.

THE STRUCTURE
Structure gives the organization its
form, establishing the manner in which

tasks are accomplished. Normally, the
operational structure of an organization is
a composite of formally established means
of organizing unit activities-its
formal structure-and the day-to-day ways
soldiers and units actually conduct their
business-the informal structure.
.The closer the formal and informal
structures match,. generally, the greater
the unity of .effort and effectiveness of the
organization. In addition, in good organizations the informal structure provides the
means for organizational change-an
inherent ability to innovate and adapt. A
closer look at formal and informal structures will highlight their importance.

Formal
The determination of a specific formal
structure is a rational, analytic process.
Formal structure depends on experience,
impact of technology, and required capabilities of soldiers and units. Further, it. is
driven by doctrinal statements that specify
the way organizations fight.

:51

CHAPTER 6

An effective formal structure divides
responsibility, making all mem hers
accountable for organizational outcomes
while providing the means to focus effort.
Organizations with well-established formal
structures, therefore, adhere to several
principles that maximize effectiveness.
They include.
• Unity of command. At every level in
organizations, there is only one source of
authority. All effort is directed toward
ensuring that orders and guidance flow
from the established authority.
• Chain of command. A clearly established
line of responsibility carries with it the
authority to reward, punish, command,
and direct units and subordinates,
whether they are officer, noncommissioned officer, or civilian.
• Standardization of functions. Standardization exists in the required performance
of all activities, regardless of the person
performing the task. Such standardization makes planning possible because
the functions being performed are
assumed to be predictable and replaceable if lost.
• Specialization of functions. All members
of the organization learn specific tasks
and are assigned particular jobs. Thus
each soldier executes his responsibilities
with a minimum of additional training·
or effort.
·
• Clarity of task specification. Detailec1
specifications for each position within
the organization provide the ability to
know what to train for and how to
employ soldiers and units.
• Line and staff functions. Accomplishing
planning and execution functions re~
quires a division of labor. Staffs complement the line by assisting with necessary
planning and support functions.
The goal of formal structure is to create
reliability. Coordinated action requires a
reliable system that ensures units and
soldiers know, with reasonable certainty,

52

how others will act and perform so they
can depend on them. Reliability is further
enhanced when those at senior levels insulate their organizations from unwarranted
external and unnecessary internal structural change, promoting stability. When
stability is maintained over time and soldiers have strong confidence in one
another, cohesion exists.
Senior leaders and commanders aid in
the cohesion process by ensuring that at
every level units are competently commanded and are linked up, down, and horizontally. The linking function ties all units
together, creating unity among the key
leaders in the organization. Cohesion is
enhanced when senior professionals get
personally involved in forming their teams.
These teams, in turn, because of an understood common intent and the shared experiences, link their subordinate units to
the larger organization.
·
·
Those at senior levels walk a thin line
when operating within the necessary
formal structure. If they rigidly adhere to
established policies and procedures, they
risk cutting themselves off from their soldiers and creating an organization that is
unresponsive and inflexible. In contrast, if
they circumvent the formal structure habitually, they risk creating unwanted confusion and uncertainty. Senior leaders
must temper their actions with a clear
understanding of what is important to the
vision and what achieves results. The best
approach for them is to understand the
nature and purpose of formal structure,
take advantage of its reliability, and vary
its application to meet the requirements of
· the situation.

Informal
Contacts between soldiers are not
limited solely to the duty environment.
Soeial contacts, off-duty contacts, and general gatherings develop other relationships.
From these contacts arise cliques, informal
leaders and their followers, groups who
oppose one another, and those who stand
together on certain organizational issues ..·

CHAPTER 6

The informal structure that develops in
this fashion also exerts a powerful
influence on organizational behavior. If
the influence is positive, it can expedite
action. When negative, it causes organizational resistance which can inhibit
effective performance.
Try as they might, senior leaders or
. commanders cannot totally influence the
informal structure. The size of the organization and its complexity ensure that
there will be a network of smaller groups.
When these smaller groups undergo
common· experiences as part of the larger
organization, many values and standards
are similar. However, general organizational activities can also lead to unique
experiences.

The effectiveness of formal
organizations, policies, and
procedures is validated through
informal structure.

Whether common or unique, these experiences allow competent senior leaders to
take advantage of the nature of informal
structure. First, senior professionals make
common organizational experiences as
widespread as possible so that all are
exposed to similar challenges. Second,
where this is not possible, rather than prohibiting special unit experiences, they
recognize positively those activities that
foster and support general organizational
values and standards by rewarding the
unique actions.
Another powerful crosswalk between
the informal and formal structure is effective officer and noncommissioned officer.
relationships. Good senior leaders use their
command sergeants major and other NCOs
to better influence the informal structure.
Likewise, the way senior NCOs gain the
trust and confidence of senior leaders
determines their influence on the formal
structure. Taken together, when senior
officer and NCO leaders work together,
team effectiveness is enhanced.
Further, when formal and informal
structures are complementary, senior professionals enhance .effectiveness by working through the informal structure because
it· supports the aims and rationale of more

53

CHAPTER 6

format systems. They know that the values
and standards exhibited will more quickly
impel action because they have been
internalized.

THE LED

Developing and sustaining those
who are led are important
organizational responsibilities
for senior leaders.

The led,. both units and soldiers, contribute to organizational success in many
ways. Their state of training determines
how well they can perform. Moreover, the
strength of their organizational identity
impacts on the quality of their performance. Individual factors affect the level
of motivation that units and soldiers exhihit. Finally, the degree of commitment to
unit aims and goals influences their intensity of effort. Developing and sustaining
those who are led, therefore, .are among
the. most important organizational responsibilities for
senior levels .
. .· those af
'
Training
·,

'

While the. day-to-day administrative
operation of theArmy is b,nportant, the
sole reason for the exi_stence of senior professionals in peacetime is to train their
soldiers and units for war. Training is not
just another responsibility but a direct and .
personal function at senior levels .
.The trai:q.ing p}iqosophy of senior
leaders flows from precepts of FM 25-100.
Effective training starts with their personal involvement and the organization's
wartime .missions . .Senior leaders or commanders translate these missions into a
training program to ensure success. When
this happens, training becomes the visible,
dynamic, and functional link· between
peacetime activity and· battlefield execution.
Moreover, it allows the organization to look
beyond peace .and. be prepared to fight if
required.· The Organization that trains to
its wartime missions will be the organization whose capability then reflects its
true combat potentiaL
Development of subordinates is also a
special training responsibility Qf those at
senior .levels-. Developing subordinates
ensures future· aYailability of .competent.
leaders at suc;ceedingly highe:i; echelons.

54.

CHAPTER 6

Moreover, as senior l.eaders explain why
and how they do things, they share their
experience and perspective. Subordinates
gradually learn to understand complex
situations in ways that are similar to those
of senior leaders.
The immediate goal of subordinate
development is to provide trained subordinates, with a team perspective, who
share the senior leader's vision of what
must be done. With suchstibordinates,
senior leaders can have confidence that the
mission will be accomplished in accord
with their communicated intent. Thus, they
can devote themselves to other tasks that
are properly their responsibility ..
Senior leaders and commanders must
develop subordinate leaders, soldiers, and
units capable of executing missions under
severe hardship, searing emotion, and
extreme danger. Without training that
emphasizes excellence in all basic skills,
soldiers thrown into combat after a period
of peace will have difficulty adjusting.
Good training• Strengthens the morale of each soldier.
• Leads directly to good discipline.
• Builds faith and trust in the chain of
command.
• Concentrates on warfight:lng skills.
• Is performance-oriented and has realistic
objectives.
• Follows Army doctrine serving to standardize action.
• Means learning from mistakes and allowing for growth.
• Means strong subordinate development ..

Identity
Identity is the variable that keeps units
and soldiers going against all odds and all
obstacles. It is most commonly sustained
through adherence to professional excellence fostered and nurtured by the leadership of the organization. At its core; professional excellence suggests that soldiers and

units are first and foremost fighters, technically and tactically prepared to overcome
any potential foe. It is anchored in a war. rior spirit developed through emphasis on• Distinctive appearance. Being a soldier
and a member of a good organization
demands high standards of appearance
and dress. The way soldiers look is a
source of identity and a mark of honor
and distinction.
• Rigorous training. The state of a soldier's training has implications for his
identity. Challenging, demanding training that develops warfighting skills gives
the successful soldier a sense of achievement. The war stories that such training
fosters sustain him during times ·of boredom and inactivity. Further, he identifies with others who have passed the
same training tests.
• High performance standards. Excellence
in all soldierly activities serves as a
badge of distinction that makes achieving readiness standards meaningful and
important as a source of soldier identity.
• Unit importance. Appropriate emphasis
that the unit is the "best in the Army"
or the "toughest" is important to soldier
and unit identity. Such descriptions
create legends and myths that are points
of reference for soldiers. They satisfy the
soldier's need to be part of a winning
team.
• Rites of passage. Any good team
demands proof of worthiness from its
new members. Rites of passage into the
unit that emphasize skill and competence, uniqueness of the unit, and solidarity with other soldiers are critical.
They generate the loyalty, sense of tradition, and professionalism so necessary
for soldier identity. They affirm the soldier's need to be judged worthy.

·Personal Soldier Factors
Whether or not the actions of those at
senior levels have the desired effect is
partly determined by personal soldier

55

CHAPTER 6

factors. Characteristics such as ability,
experience, and general attitudes drive
soldiers' personal expectations of what
needs to be done and how they should be
treated.
Senior leaders may disagree with such
expectations, but their awareness of them
helps them decide which actions will motivate soldiers to perform more effectively.
Senior professionals should consider the
following personal soldier factors:
• Degree of control. Soldiers differ in the

amount of control required. Some need a
high degree of direction while others
need only a word or two of guidance,
depending on their acceptance of unit
values.
• Tolerance of uncertainty. Orders will not

always be clear. The situation certainly
may be chaotic. Key for soldier motivation is the degree of uncertainty that
soldiers can tolerate.
• Understanding "why." Soldiers need to

identify with the mission to use their
skills properly. Ensuring whenever possible that they understand why they are
doing something enhances their responsiveness and purposeful action.
• Knowledge and experience. The biggest

mistake one can make is to assume
desired levels of soldier knowledge and
experience. Only by viewing the situation
through a soldier's eyes and knowing
intimately soldier capabilities can this
factor be properly addressed.

Commitment
The strength of commitment of units
and soldiers to organizational aims and
missions is difficult to gauge. Sometimes
it can be generated simply by appeals to
unit loyalty. Other times such appeals
have no effect at all. Those who study why

56

men fight suggest that commitment is
most evident where there is stability, trust,
and a positive outlook.
Stability enhances commitment when it
ensures that a soldier develops understanding of what is required, competency at his
job, and knowledge of how he is expected
to function in the unit. Once assigned
specific positions, soldiers should not be
moved unless absolutely necessary.
Further, a soldier should be able to develop
completely. By requiring soldiers to become
experts at their jobs, those at senior levels
gain their loyalty and commitment.
Trust is important because it gets the
soldier involved and ultimately committed.
Through trust, senior leaders communicate
that soldiers and units are important and
vital. Soldiers who are trusted become
organizational partners who respond and
perform.
A positive outlook gives meaning to an
activity and makes it worthwhile. There is
enough hardship without dwelling on it.
Soldiers know they are involved in a
dangerous profession and want to do well.
By being positive, and by making training
activities and such administrative tasks as
unit guard interesting, those at senior
levels instill a sense of challenge and thus
excitement. In turn, soldiers become
involved and committed.

THE LEADERS
Senior leaders are special members of
the organization because of their positions
in the formal structure. They are extraordinary problem solvers and generate that.
same capability throughout their organization. Military operations are a series of
continuous challenges. Senior leaders who
can apply their knowledge and then act to
get results, causing problems to pile up mi
opponents faster than they cart respond
dictate the tempo. They know that thei;
efforts are the source of organizational
agility and the means to make the vision
a reality.
·
·

To establish the means to convert
vision to organizational reality, senior
leaders first develop a game plan. Then,
they standardize their rules for action.
Further, they establish priorities and objectives. Next, they allow time for reflection.
Finally, they understand the part that personal factors play in the process.
The game plan provides the reasons for
the why of their actions. Standardizing the
rules for action facilitates the ability of
senior leaders to communicate their intent
to the organization while providing the
basis for action in the absence of specific
orders. Priorities and objectives allow for
orderly accomplishment of the intent.
Reflection allows senior leaders or commanders time to balance where the organization has been, and is, against where it
needs to go. Understanding personal
factors allows senior leaders to develop the
personal checks needed to gauge their
actions properly.

Game Plan
Developing a game plan begins with a
personal assessment of the situation. To
know what needs to be done, one must
first get the feel, taste, and smell of the
situation. Only through direct involvement
can this be accomplished. Briefings,
reports, and personal observations of
trusted subordinates help. But, often they
do little more than provide background.
They are often one-sided and biased, representing preconceived opinions.
Once senior leaders or commanders
have seen the situation, they weigh the
information they have gathered against
their experience and balance all against
what is required. In this way they establish their game plan. They know such
formulations are flexible and can change
as more information becomes available.
But, they also understand they need guides
to make their own leadership actions
rational and purposeful and to explain
them to subordinates. Field Marshal Sir
William Slim, the British commander in

To make their vision reality, senior
leaders develop a game plan;
establish standard rules, priorities,
and objectives; allow time to reflect;
and consider the influence of their
personal factors.

57

CHAPTER 6

Burma during World War II, faced an
extremely difficult situation. In Defeat into
Victory, he tells how he established his
game plan:
So when I took command, I sat quietly
down to work out this business of
morale. I came to certain conclusions,
based not on any theory that I had
studied, but on some experience and a
good deal of hard thinking. It was on
these conclusions that I set out consciously to· raise the fighting spirit of
my army. (155)
"»'
·

Standard Rules
The actions ()f those at senior levels are
vitally important t.o ·establishing the appropriate base for converting vision to action.
Concufrently with establishing a· game
plan, senior leaders and commanders standardize their personal rules for action. In
this way, they promote the ability to communicate their intent so that subordinates
understand what is needed.
The rules for action are governed by the
situation, both personal and organizational.
When analyzed correctly, the situation
dictates senior leader actions and accounts
for unit and soldier responses. The situational considerations include the following:
• How have similar situations been
handled in the past?
• What kind of example needs to be set to
relate the game plan to the current
situation?
• What are the expectations of soldiers and
units toward the senior professional
based on his previous leadership actions?
• How does the senior leader take advantage of unit and soldier views of his past
leadership to accomplish the current
game plan?
In effect, personal rules provide a framework for ensuring that important tactical
and operational factors are not overlooked.
They take into account the vision, the

mission, and the condition of men, units,
and weapons. Further, they allow senior
professionals to be the examples at critical
places and times. Finally, they serve as
the tools to generate the information
leaders need to make decisive, timely
decisions.

Priorities and Objectives
The game plan establishes the general
method. But only when senior leaders set
the priority of actions, and their objectives,
can they ensure orderly accomplishment of
their intent. Priorities and objectives establish order for the organization's actions.
First, priorities set the sequence in which
actions are to be accomplished. Second,
objectives specify what results are desired
and appropriate. Both are required to
achieve· the desired result.
Too often senior leaders leave the establishment of priorities and objectives solely
to subordinates, or develop them separately. If the intent is absolutely clear,
they may be on safe ground. Normally,
however, intent is never that clear. Thus,
effective team action can only be ensured
when both senior leaders and subordinates
are involved in establishing priorities and
objectives. They represent the total team's ·
commitment to the organization and are,
in turn, the basis for unity of effort. (See
Appendix F, Setting Goals and Priorities.)
Priorities and objectives represent the
most effective way to connect personal
vision with the organizational mission and
uriit purpose. Properly formulated, they
represent stable guides for executing policies, responsibilities, and duties. They provide for a common outlook and a sense of
purpose in soldiers and units.

Reflection
One of the important activities those in
senior positions take time to do is to
reflect; ·If the mind is a key ingredient for
victory, senior leaders or commanders exercise it with a view to its health just as

CHAPTER 6

they do their bodies. Further, whether in.
peace or war, they take time to think problems through fully to make sound decisions
and plan appropriately. A well-formed
ability to reflect enables those who ponder
important matters to concentrate and shut
out distractions.
The way senior professionals provide
time for reflection depends on who they
are. They do it, however, recognizing that
their decisions can make the difference
between life and death for their soldiers
and units. Field Marshal Montgomery
believed that senior combat leaders should
allow a certain amount of time each day
for quiet thought and reflection. It is
reported that he habitually went to bed at
2130, even during tough battles. Sir
William Slim, noting that he had seen too
many peers collapse under the stress of
senior leadership and command, insisted
on having ample leisure to think and rest.
During these periods it is recorded that his
permanent order was not to be disturbed
unless a crisis arose that no one else could
handle. General Douglas MacArthur and
General George Marshall also gave reflec:
tion their respectful attention.

If I always appear prepared, it is
because before entering on an
undertaking, I have meditated for
long and have foreseen what may
occur. It is not genius which reveals
to me suddenly and secretly what I
should do in. circumstances
unexpected by others; it is thought
and meditation.
·

While superintendent at West Point,
MacArthur often worked in his quarters
study until after noon instead of going to
his office where he might be distracted.
Years later, in the Philippines, he had a
standing daily appointment at a Manila
movie house for an evening show. He did
not care what was playing; he fell asleep
as quickly as he sat down. He found
moviegoing a convenient way to unburden
himself. Similarly, during his World War
II years as Army Chief of Staff, General
Marshall usually left his office by 1500
each day and rarely made any important
decisions after that hour.

Personal Leader Factors
Personal factors do influence one's
method of leading and can have farreaching implications, especially at senior

59

CHAPTER 6

levels. It is a given that all senior leaders
are different and their experiences influence organizational decisions. This is
good as long as organizational balance
and direction are sustained. When personal aims rather than organizational
and mission needs drive leader actions,
they can disrupt, creating levels of stress
which work against an ability to achieve
desired effects.
Personal leader factors are expressed
through four aspects of senior professional
behavior: style, confidence, security, and
values. Style determines the way those at
senior levels interact with other members
of the organization .. Some senior leaders
and commanders function better when they
work closely with soldiers. General Bradley
and General Patton operated in this manner. Other senior professionals operate better by maintaining some distance between
themselves and their subordinates. General
Marshall and General MacArthur generally
operated in this fashion. What made all
four men effective, whatever their style,
was their consistency.
The amount of confidence senior professionals possess affects the way they
discharge their organizational duties. Lack
of confidence in themselves or their soldiers may result in oversupervision. In
contrast, confidence· begets appropriate
delegation with less direct supervision.
Close supervision can be good where the

aim is to train and develop, but it may
retard the development of initiative so
vital for success.
Some leaders can tolerate ambiguity
better than others. Generally, this capability is based on feelings of security
concerning competence and skills. Lack of
security, and thus low tolerance for ambiguity, can result in tight control and
rigid action. Tolerance of uncertainty born
of competence creates security and permits
flexibility.
The personal values of those at senior
levels determine those values they are
likely to emphasize. When personal values
match existing unit values, effectiveness is
enhanced. When one tries to force different
values on others, the result is conflict and
resistance. Those at senior levels, in particular, consider carefully the degree to
which organizational and their own personal values match before acting.
Finally, stress cart be both a positive
and negative factor for the senior leader.
The realities of our profession dictate that
we be capable of dealing constructively
with stress. As FM 100-5 cautions, the commander who understands how stress
impact& on himself, his soldiers, and his
organization will win. He protects his sol. diers and organization through strong caring leadership, proper mental and physical
preparation, and execution of a well-framed
VlSIOn.

BUILDING TEAMS
A senior professional cannot ensure
implementation of his vision alone. It
takes the concentrated effort of many
teams. First there are those directly subordinate to the senior professional-his own
staff team. Through them, many of his
aims, orders, and intent are communicated.
He chooses them carefully and sees to it
that they embrace the organizational
vision. Next is his command team, the key

60

subordinate commanders who make up the
organization. They represent the professionals who share his vision and understand his intent; executing it to achieve
the desired result. Finally, there are the
subordinate staff and command teams
which interact with the teams directly
responsible to the senior leader or commander. They work out the required detail
to focus the activities of the organization.

CHAPTER 6

Building solid, effective teams requires
certain senior leader actions. To achieve
the coordinated results the· vision demands,
senior leaders first must set the stage to
develop and train their teams. Then to sustain their teams, they establish the appro"
priate organizational conditions.

SETTING THE STAGE
Whether senior leaders occupy line or
staff positions, they must build teams-the
Army's lifeblood. Without effective teams,
those in the organization will lack common
understanding of what needs to be done
and unity of effort.
To set the stage for developing effective
teams, two factors are important-focus
and involvement. Concerning focus and its
relation to the vision, unless the vision is
defined and limited in ways that can be
shared, it won't be understood. Senior
leaders will have problems generating
understanding of their aims. Established
objectives and goals will lack the required
specificity. Finally, there will be only
limited ability for subordinate team members to share the vision or to trust that
what the senior leaders say makes sense.
Involvement is important because one
cannot simply wave his hand and build a
team. Senior leaders must be willing to
spend the time and to become personally
involved. Only through personal interaction
with their teams can senior leaders identify
their strengths and weaknesses and form
them constructively.
Although interaction with individual
team leaders is important, the most effective method to develop cohesive teams is
for senior leaders to interact with team
members as a group. Such an approach
enhances cooperation and reduces team
jealousy. Moreover, it ensures that everyone gets the, same information and shares
the same vision.
Interacting with their teams, whether
staff or command, requires that senior
leaders bare their souls. Teamwork

involves obligations and rights for all
members, including senior leaders. These
obligations include:
• Unity; Team members identify themselves with the goals and aims of the
higher teams.
• Partnership. Team members accept the
focus of senior leaders.
• Cooperation. Team mem hers agree to
work together to achieve common solutions to organizational challenges.
• Ownership. Team members accept and
share collective responsibility for organizational success or failure.

Collectively, effective focus and involvement demand that senior leaders have
good communications skills. They need to
be able to tell their teams clearly what
they want to do and what the teams need
to do to assist. Therefore, without very
good reason, once the visfon is established,
senior leaders don't change it because their
teams will have difficulty adjusting.
Second, good senior leaders personally go
through the process .of setting goals and
objectives with their teams. In this way,
they ensure everyone understands and
accepts what must be done.

ESTABLISHING THE CONDITIONS
As professionals proceed up the ,leadership ladder and assume positions of greater
responsibility, the importance of having
effective teams increases. Establishing the
appropriate conditions to sustain these
teams is essential and is an integral part
of being a leader at senior levels. The· conditions include• Common intent.
• Command climate.
• Disciplined proficiency.
• Shared values and .experiences.
• Focus on the future.
• Delegation.

61

CHAPTER 6

Common· Intent
To establish common intent, two factors
are equally important-formulating the
intent and communicating it. Together
they give an organization the capability to
act faster and execute better than its
opponent. In addition, they reduce the load
on mechanical information systems, lessening their vulnerability to interference.
Formulating the intent correctly
depends on a well-developed ability to
match the established vision to the operational situation through a well-developed
game plan. It demands the capability to
convert personal initiative into organizatitmal agility, thereby allowing rapid
exploitation of opportunities that move the
organization toward its goals. When formulating the intent, senior leaders consider
all relevant factors that apply to the
vision. Moreover, they take into account
the condition of their organization. Finally,
they determine how they will make their
intent known to their teams and follow up
to ensure proper execution.

LEADERS AT ALL LEVELS
MUST UNDERSTAND
AND CONVEY THE
COMMANDER'S INTENT

When communicating the intent, senior
professionals may know what they want
to accomplish, but getting their point
across is quite another thing. The many
levels of the organization, their distance
from subordinates, and the organizational
complexity all work against them. They
communicate, therefore, through their
subordinate comma:p.ders, staffs, and
special agencies, always teaching and
coaching to ensure that the message is
understood. Further, they communicate the
intent repeatedly and check constantly,
ensuring that it is clear, operationally
relevant, realistic, and understood.
Clarity reduces confusion, provides a
firm idea of what is desired, and properly
provides a common base for action. As
with vision, once they have stated the
intent, senior leaders do nof change it
without good reason. They know it guides
and focuses action.
'

62

CHAPTER 6

Making the expression of intent operationally appropriate ensures that the activities directed can be executed. "To close
with and destroy the enemy by fire and
maneuver" is an appropriate statement of
intent. It implies certain activities which
can be understood and executed. In contrast, a statement such as "to provide
progressive training to appropriate soldiers" is an inappropriate, nonoperational
statement of intent. It can only be related
to specific actions by deriving more specific expressions of intent. The. whole
statement is open to interpretation and
can easily be confused.
Realism is important for establishing
common intent because the level of difficulty implied should reasonably balance
the ability to accomplish it. A level of
difficulty that is too low can actually
lower unit and soldier capabilities. A task
that is too difficult may· cause the organization to fail, resulting in a: collapse of
morale and will. When activities implied by
the intent are beyond the organization's
capability, they will have no motivational
value at all. They act to lower the esteem
which soldiers feel for a senior leader or
commander.·
Ensuring that the intent is understobd
is a basic senior-level responsibility. Yet,
often senior leaders fail to follow up after
communicating their intent. Visiting units,
allowing subordinates to question; and
being readily available to their teams help
ensure that the intent is understood.

Command Climate
A command climate is a shared feeling,
a perception among the members of a unit
about what life is like. This perception is
based on their understanding of how they
will be. treated-whether the leadership
cares about them personally and profes~
sionally. The perception also depends on
what professional opportunities. they see

within the command-freedom to learn and
make decisions versus close supervision
and many constraining rules.
Given its intangible nature, a positive
command climate depends primarily on
how those in senior positions communicate
their concern through their actions and the
actions of their teams. Therefore, the
behavior of senior leaders is al ways
important, regardless of what they say.
Senior leaders and commanders have a
responsibility to establish a command
climate that is fair and challenges the
organization to do its best. The effectiveness of a large unit depends chiefly on
how soldiers feel about the teams of which
they are a part. If the command climate
is good, unit cohesion is generally high.
Moreover, members of the organization are
inclined to take risks and be innovative.
To maintain the appropriate command
climate, senior professionals ensure that
their organizational teams understand• The object of their effort.
• The importance of their actions.
· • The reasons 'for tbeir aetions.

· Di11ciplined Pr~ficiency
One of the products of tough, demanding training is disciplined proficiency. It is
more than just a competent ability to perform. It occurs when proficiency is of such
quality that it causes units, teams, and
soldiers to focus their professional energy
and to subordinate themselves willingly to
the needs of the organization.
Its effect is significant. First, the melding of discipline and proficiency ensures
that soldiers, teams, and units can be
relied on to act in accord with organizational, rather than personal, needs. Second,
it creates an atmosphere of confidence. The
organization is no longer a remote entity;

6,3

CHAPTER 6

the soldier knows that his disciplined
action makes an important contribution to
achieving unit goals. Moreover, when this
occurs, soldiers discipline themselves,
lessening the need for the leadership to use
formal means of discipline. Finally, morale
is high because the soldier knows that he
is important and what he does matters.
To sustain disciplined proficiency
throughout the organization, senior leaders
or commanders teach, coach, and train. By
constantly teaching the moral and practical reasons for maintaining disciplined
proficiency, they develop. By constantly
coaching, they provide the purpose for
maintaining proficiency and discipline.
Finally, through training, they reinforce
the necessity for disciplined proficiency.

Shared Values and Experiences
Shared values validate the existence of
shared experiences. If properly established,
shared values form the character of the
unit. They become the basis for a team
view of what needs to be done, and they
limit the need for coercion or punishment.
But, most important, they reduce the need
for complicated policies and rules, serving
to simplify unit operations.

There can be no "band of brothers"
or warrior spirit unless those at
senior levels and members of the
organization share values and
experiences.

64

Senior professionals establish conditions
that require members of the command to
live together, work together, train together,
and play together. They know that anything providing opportunities for soldiers
to have meaningful common experiences
which tie them together is useful.
Symbols that indicate common membership in an organization reinforce
shared experiences. Shoulder patches, unit
colors, campaign streamers, review ceremonies, and even informal symbols such
as scarves serve this important function
and should be supported as long as they
are used in an appropriate manner. The
following vignette related by General
Truscott in Command Missions clearly
illustrates this point:

CHAPTER 6

self-regulating and do not require close
monitoring and constant control.

Focus on the Future
Senior leaders and commanders focus
on the future in terms of both mission
and outcomes. The time required to implement a decision and then see it through
to completion is greater the higher the
echelon. The further ahead senior leaders
can think, the better their organizations
will perform. Subordinate teams will have
more time to plan and execute what needs
to be done to satisfy the intent of senior
leaders. Planning by subordinate echelons
will be more systematic, enabling more
orderly progress toward attaining objectives. Finally, the staffs of senior leaders
will have more time to focus on what must
be done.
Delegation
In successful organizations, those in
senior positions delegate so that tasks are
accomplished by the appropriate echelon.
They establish organizational priorities
and provide operational direction. Further,
they assign the missions, thus the tasks,
and resources to subordinate units through
their orders. Finally, they are involved, but
in ways that team actions do not depend
on them personally.
As soldiers work together, by-products
of their activities emerge. Catchwords,
jargon, customs, traditions, and nicknames become part of organizational life.
Similarly, routines, rules of conduct,
standards of performance, and values
emerge. This superstructure becomes a
common cultural community.
In the. hands of competent senior
leaders, a .common cultural community is
a powerful tool. It regulates behavior,
reduces th~ need for explicit control, and
enhances, organizational flexibility.
Further, it verifies that soldiers have
internalized and share the important
values. Soldiers, teams, and units become

Because we may fight outnumbered, we
must capitalize on· every soldier's potential.
Empowering subordinates by delegating is
a prerequisite to tapping their potential. At
the same time, senior leaders must determine which responsibilities to release and
which responsibilities to retain based on
ability, training, and expertise. This
requires a thoughtful balancing of centralization and decentralization. Further,
decentralization must allow for team initiative within the established intent, yet hold
subordinates accountable for their actions
at their level of responsibility. This accountability is important because, once a
function is decentralized, it is tough to
regain control.

65

CHAPTER 6

SUMMARY
To implement their v1s1on, senior
leaders or commanders know what makes
military organizations good and what does
not. Good military organizations have
unique characteristics, are made up of
specific components, and are successful
because of collective team efforts.
Good organizations are adaptive. cohesive, and resilient. They adapt quickly,
respond to changing conditions, withstand
stress and pressure, rebound from setbacks, and know what they are doing. Collectively, the characteristics promote an
ability to learn, trust, and support an
unshakable unity of purpose.
The organization consists of three components: the structure, the led, and the
leader. The structure gives the organization
its form and dictates the way soldiers and
units interact. The way the led respond to
the unit structure and their leaders determines the ultimate effectiveness of the
organization. The skills, competency, and
resources that senior leaders bring to the
organization determine the way problems
are solved and tasks are accomplished.
Teams are the means through which
senior leaders achieve organizational

success. To develop and sustain their
teams, they set the stage through clear
·focus and involvement and the establishment of specific organizational conditions.
The conditions include: common intent,
positive command climate, disciplined proficiency, shared values and experiences,
focus on the future, and delegation.
Common intent establishes the conditions
where alf members of the organization
share a common view of organizational
aims and goals, understand why it functions the way it does, and know how it
will operate given a variety of contingencies. In a positive command climate,
soldiers feel they. are treated fairly and are
challenged to do their best. Disciplined
proficiency motivates units, teams, and
soldiers to subordinate themselves willingly
to the needs of the organization. Shared
experiences provide the basis for shared
values and a common cultural community.
A focus on the future enables a systematic,
orderly process toward obtaining objectives.
Delegation ensures that all teams can
make appropriate decisions and operate
effectively. Collectively, the necessary
conditions provide the team capability to
make the vision a reality.

CHARACTERISTICS
•ADAPTIVE
•COHESIVE

--- -----.....
•STRUCTURE
•LED
•LEADERS

---

-------

--·-

BUILDING TEAMS
• SETTING THE STAGE
• ESTABLISHING THE CONDITIONS

66

--

CHAPTER 7

Senior Leaders
Action

STUDIES OF PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE
War is the final test. All the moral
strength, skills, and knowledge of senior
leaders or commanders are brought to
bear to execute their vision. They take
charge and act to establish purpose,
provide direction, and motivate their
organization in an all-consuming effort to
win. What those in senior positions are
and what they know are made manifest
by what they do to achieve the results
demanded by the vision.
War is also where one goes for examples of how senior leaders convert what
they have learned into action. Examples

serve as models for current and future
action. Moreover, they suggest what senior
leaders or commanders do to develop and
discipline themselves to implement their
visions of senior-level leadership in peace
so that they can be effective organizational
leaders in war.
No one example is appropriate for all
situations. In the difficult days of World
War II, however, two senior leaders from
different backgrounds, in different theaters
of war, provided models of how one takes
charge and meets the challenge of organizational leadership and command.

67

CHAPTER 7

One, General Robert L. Eichelberger,
was tested at Buna, New Guinea, in late
1942. His example illustrates what senior
leaders do when faced with faking charge
of organizations in great difficulty. The
other, General Clarence R. Huebner, was
called on to take charge of an excellent
unit from General Terry Allen, perhaps one
of the most proficient division commanders
in the European theater, and lead it to
even greater success. His example demonstrates what leaders do to make a good
unit better.
·
Which senior leader faced the more
difficult task is problematic. What their
examples do demonstrate is that, even
though situations and levels of command
may vary, the same imperatives of seniorlevel leadership-providing purpose, direction, and motivation-apply equally.
Moreover, their examples depict the
differences between junior and senior

68

leadership. A junior leader's effectiveness
depends primarily on direct action to overcome the obstacles of battle. A senior
leader's success hinges on doing the former
while indirectly shaping the battle or
campaign to achieve the tactical or
operational objective.
The examples of Eichelberger and
Huebner are important in another way.
The conditions under which they led and
fought are remarkably similar to conditions that those in senior positions
today may face. They operated within the
frameworks of joint and combined command structures, with constrained re~
sources, against a well-disciplined enemy,
and with little detailed or direct guidance;
How did they figure out what to do to
employ their. organizations to accomplish
the. mission? What did .they do to gain the
confidence of seniors, subordinates, and
the organization itself?

CHAPTER 7

BUNA
SCALE OF MILES

---

1

0

1

2

3

4

.... -·

_,, ,,

ll•tleH. Ration• were •hort. lckneH
wa• wide•pread. Weapon• would not
work. Morale wa• low. And the will
needed to reduce the Japaneee po•itlon•
appeared to be mi..in1.
General MacArthur, now In an ad·
vanced headquarter. in Port Mor..by,
wa• thorou1bly alarmed by the lack of
pro1reH by the Au•tralian-led ew
Guinea force, •pecially by the poor performance of the U 32ncl Infantry Divi·
•Ion. On 29 ovember, he •ummoned
General Eichelber,er, the I Co..,. com·
mender, from AU9tralia to Port Moreeby.
In Elchelberser'• word•, the •ituatlon
wu srave and the orden clear:
••Bot>." ••id General MacArthur In
a srlm voa, ••rm putdns you In com·
mand at Buno. Relieve Hardln1. I am
Hndins you in, Bob. and I want you
to remove all offlceu who won't
flsbt. Relieve re1lmental and bat·
talion commander•; if nece..ary, pat

Hrteanl9 in cbarse of battalion• and
corporal• In chars• or Companie anyone who will ftsht. Time ie or the
eNence, the Jape may land reinforcement. any ni1ht."
General MacArthur etrode down
the breezy veranda •l•in. He . .1d he
bad report• that American eoldler
were tbrowln1 away their weapon•
and runnlns from the enemy. Then
he etopped ebort and epoke with
emphaele. He wanted no ml underetandlns• about my ...1pment.
.. Bob," be ea id, '"I want you to
take Buna, or not come back alive."
He paueed a moment and then, with·
out lookln1 at Byen, pointed a fln1er.
"'And that soee for your chief of etatt
too. Do you undentand?'' "Yee Ir,"
I eald. (21)
General Eichelber1er and hi etaf'r
arrived at the 32nd Infantry Dlvl ion
command po9t on 1 Decembfor and took

~
69

CHAPTER 7 _ _ _ _.:___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

70

~--

CHAPTER 7

71

CHAPTER 7 ----------------------~---'----

72

CHAPTER 7

DEMANDS FOR ACTION
In recounting the challenges that
General Eichelberger and General Huebner
faced, it is not the battles which capture
the imagination or drive home the lessons.
Rather, it is the actions of the senior
leaders and commanders involved that give
the stories their drama and make them
important. If anything, the accounts
record, once again, that in war senior

leaders triumph who can cope with disorder and adversity and who possess the
greater reserve of courage, determination,
and skill. War is first and foremost a test
of wills where results matter.
The task of senior leaders is to build
the will and strength of their own forces
while destroying that of the enemy. They

73
lllit.1

CHAPTER 7

know that disorder is the norm while
chaos results in disaster and loss of will.
Historian Jay Luvaas observed in Dear
Miss Em concerning General Eichelberger
at Buna:
Normally for the tide of victo!'y to be
changed some new element must be
inserted-more troops, better equipment,
or a change in command. There were no
reinforcements to speak of even after
Eichelberger took over at Buna and he
never had what he needed by way of
artillery or air support. The difference
between victory and defeat on this
occasion was simply Eichelberger. (16)

Victory is gained by senior leaders
focusing their actions in support of
their vision in organized, systematic,
and sometimes heroic fashion to
generate the will needed to win.

All the elements of effective senior-level
leadership are present in what Eichelberger
and Huebner did. They had a vision, and,
clearly, being standard bearers, developers,
and integrators was important. Knowing
history, operations, and organizations also
played a role. In particular, their moral
toughness, professional knowledge, courage, and character come through strongly.
They can be seen simultaneously as commanders, leaders, controllers, and managers as they sought to achieve the proper
command effect. Their use of conceptual,
competency, and communications skills
ultimately was instrumental in achieving
success. Finally, their involved leadership
and work with their units leave no doubt
.that they knew their organizations.
There is an additional reason why the
examples of General Eichelberger and
General Huebner are important to the
understanding and practice of effective
senior-level leadership. Both men knew
how to use the attributes of senior-level
leadership to establish the correct purpose,
provide direction, and generate the needed
motivation in their organizations to give
them the will to achieve victory. The
remainder of this chapter is devoted to a
discussion of how General Eichelberger
and General Huebner took charge,
employed the imperatives of senior-level
leadership, and achieved the results
demanded by their visions.

74

CHAPTER· 7

ESTABLISHING PURPOSE
General Eichelberger and General
Huebner faced difficult situations when
they took charge. Their organizations
were perilously close to losing the will to
fight for entirely different reasons. In
each case it. was their, ability to rapidly
formulate their vision and establish the
game plan; priorities, and rules for action
that allowed them to establish the purpose
needed to get their organizations back on
a winning track.

trust their subordinates and allow
organizational purpose to manifest itself
naturally. General Eichelberger related
one telling incident:

In General E1ch~lberger's c~se, his
vision was to win the battle at Buna, in
the process regaining the measure of selfres p e ct that had been lacking in his
organization. He chose to establish purpose
for the effort through an emphasis on
order and discipline. In his own words:

While General Huebner's actions to take
charge and establish purpose appear to be
different, in many respects they are very
similar to those of General Eichelberger.
As implied by General Bradley, his task
was to impart an enhanced sense of team
to the division that would make it a
sounder member of the larger organization.
General Huebner chose to do this
through a vision that emphasized creating
a purposeful, disciplined fighting team.
Discipline in his view fostered purpose
which, in turn, would sustain the organization and save lives when faced with
adversity. Based on personal interviews
with General Huebner, one writer noted:
Through the entire battle of Buna,
General Eichelberger never wavered from
his vision. The tenacity ·was born out of
his own belief in the importance of
properly established purpose for the entire
effort. Moreover, it was sustained by his
unperstanding of his own limits as a
leader and knowledge that, at times,
senior leaders have to have the courage to

Although General Huebner had inherited a division which had great pride
and a magnificent fighting spirit, he
was convinced that they needed more
training in fundamentals .... At the
same time he did not want to do anything that would injure the fine qualities
which the division had, nor did he want
to undermine the confidence which the
men had in their officers. (61)

75

CHAPTER 7

In a manner similar to that of General
Eichelberger, General Huebner took time
to structure his game plan and then decide
what his priorities and rules for action
would be. Once he did this he acted to
establish his desired purpose throughout
the organization. It has been observed concerning General Huebner:

· He constantly sought verification that it
was being sustained and remained a
source for organizational purpose. One
vignette is particularly enlightening:

The most significant aspect of General
Huebner's leadership of the First Division was his professional competence
and his insistence on professionalism.
Few generals, if any, could have
competed with General Allen's popularity. Huebner did not enter the
competition. (87)
General Huebner was different in one
aspect of his method for establishing
purpose. He saw his staff initially as a
loosely organized team who, while competent and well-trained, operated in areas
where they didn't belong. Therefore, as a
matter of routine he demanded that his
staff rigidly adhere to the provisions of
FM 101-5 in accomplishing their duties.
He saw them as the conduit for communicating his purpose, not enlarging on it. In
this instance, he took a page from
General Bradley who in A Soldier's Story
observed concerning staffs:
While mobility was the "secret" US
weapon that defeated von Rundstedt in
the Ardennes, it owed its effectiveness
to the success of US Army staff training. With division, corps, and Army
staffs, schooled in the same language,
practices, and techniques, we could
resort to sketchy oral orders with assurance of perfect understanding between
US commands. (474)
General Huebner was no less tenacious
than was General Eichelberger in ensuring
that organizational purpose was sustained.
His continual emphasis on Infantry marksmanship throughout his time as commander of the Big Red One was legendary.

76

As stated in Chapter 2, the primary
responsibility of senior leaders is to establish purpose as a reference point for
organizational will. Although its effect is
directed inward, it also is founded on an
appreciation of requirements that are
external to the organization. Both
Eichelberger and Huebner were ~asters at
understanding the larger and broader
organizational framework in which they
acted. They were especially effective
because they linked larger ·.organizational
aims to those of their own organizations.
They knew and understood their bosses
and had determined how much freedom of
action they had been given. When they
acted to establish purpose they possessed
confidence because they had considered all
the factors.

PROVIDING DIRECTION
General Eichelberger and General
Huebner understood that providing
direction was critical to communicating

CHAPTER 7

what needed to be done to achieve the
results demanded by their vision. General
Eichelberger, in providing direction,
moved to the critical places on the battlefield, took what appeared to be foolhardy
chances, and used his staff when required
to compensate for weaknesses in the units
he led and commanded. In contrast,
. General Huebner provided direction by
becoming the lst Division's marksmanship
instructor, establishing rigorously
supervised training programs, and
molding his staff to serve· his organization
more effectively.
Both senior leaders understood the
necessity to chart clear and certain courses
for their organizations to create the conditions providing the best opportunities to
achieve the desired results. Additionally,
they knew to assess . progress and check
details for themselves. Further, they understood the importance of a properly supportive command climate. Their rationale
was to align organizational effort to
multiply combat power.
The requirement to provide direction
places a premium on the ability of senior
leaders or commanders to make their
actions appropriate to the situation. Where
compassion is needed, they are compassionate. Where the situation requires ruthlessness, they are ruthless. Two vignettes
concerning General Huebner's actions to
provide direction illustrate his ability to
match his actions to the situation:

General Eichelberger also was expert in
matching actions to the situation when
providing direction. This was evident in
his relief of his West Point classmate.
Unlike General Huebner, however, he faced
a situation where he had to provide direction while he sought to shape the battle.
He did not have the opportunity to provide
direction before the battle was joined. He
put the importance of providing direction
in perspective when he commented:
There was no time at Buna for protocol. The first thing I fourid out was
the troops in the front-line positions
had no trustworthy knowledge of
Japanese positions. Our patrols· were
dazed by the hazards of swamp and
jungle; they were unwilling fo undertake the patrolling which alone could
safeguard their own interests. To get
accurate information was almost impossible-and yet men die if orders are
based on incorrect information. (26)

What both senior leaders demonstrate
through their examples is that to. provide
direction senior leaders unify the actions
of their organizational operating systems.
Doctrine is adapted where required and is
used where appropriate. Combat service
support, command and control, and all
other supporting systems are focused on
achieving results which foster accomplishment of the vision. Execution of organizational actions is managed through the

77

CHAPTER 7

staff, and their effort is unified through
creation of effective staff teams. Finally,
results are assessed to measure progress
toward realizing vision and generating the
desired command effect.

GENERATING MOTIVATION

Moral force, added to unit and soldier
capabilities, provides the strongest
·form of organizational action.

The ability to generate organizational
motivation to achieve results depends on
the ability of senior leaders, first, .to understand their own motivational aims. If
they do so properly, they ·e11sure their
actions motivate others~ But more important, they generate the personal drive
required to make their vision felt. at all
organizational levels.
The effect of a sustained, ·motivated
leadership effort· by senior leaders is a·.
moral toughness that· sustains their will
and provides the· courage to see matters
through to conclus.ion regardless. of the
cost. It ensures the moral ascendency
required for victory. General Eichelberger
said it best about Buna when he remarked:
In battle the margin between victory
and defeat is often narrow. Under the
terrific pressures of combat, officers
and inen alike tend to forget that the
enemy is hard pressed too. Sometimes
just plain stubbornness wins the battle
· that awareness and wisdom might have
lost. (48)

Generating the required motivation
depends on the ability of senior leaders or
commanders to sustain the. appropriate command climate. In General Huebner's case
it was tied directly to the motivation that
flowed from his demand for disciplined
proficiency and to the reputation for excellence that already existed in the Big Red
One. Everything General Jluebner did was
to sustain this motivational base. Oµe
observer noted:
'
"
His appearance and manner typified
his
brand of leadership. His uniform was
always neat, conformed to regulation

78

I

CHAPTER 7

and was not ostentatious. His eyes,
which could appear as cold as ice or
twinkle with humor, were his dominant
feature. (87)

organization. He remarked concerning the
motivational challenge of leading sick and
dispirited troops:
No commander wants to make sick
troops fight, but hard as was my
decision, there was no alternative. If
the Japanese could not be driven from
their comfortable coastal positions and
quickly the whole Buna Force would
meet defeat and death in the swamps.
Retreat back over the mountains was
impossible. (23)

Moreover , he ensured that motivated
soldier behavior which supported the
desired command climate was rewarded.
Another vignette:

AnotJ;ieJ: ,_,rrecthre ·1-. . .h,ip technique

11aed" bf Genera'I .ft•~•M- wa8 the
maruu~r bl which be "'°'°bed heroic
action. H~ habitually · ~ied •••erat
Silver Stttr Medah· ii~ 1da·:poeket. and

upoa seeinc a hero~ •• performed.
Jii••••
an •••'4 on t'b• spot ••.•
Mer.ecwel', he· nevff mhi•ed an epporturiitJ. to~· ~ ·~eneu of
•he 1•00:P•· lf,e ••4•-i• ue>wn that
emyene who cleatr•.,_ • Germut tank

wtU• '"a •t&1U!QOka'• wou.1¢, l,e. aw.a nted
the Silver Star,. ('7l..Ul

General Eichelberger was no less con·
cerned with generating motivation. In fact,
until he was able to begin to achieve the
desired command effect, it was his only
means of averting total disaster for his

As did General Huebner, General Eichelberger used personal example as his primary means for generating motivation. It
caused him to be well forward with his
troops, share their hardships, and, if need
be, lead them forward with words like
"lads come along with us. "
Both men demonstrated they could be
morally tough. Their example spread
throughout their organizations promoting
the attitudes and shared values that
sustained motivated behavior. Its cumulative effect was a powerful command
climate which generated a sense of moral
ascendency that carried them to victory,
sometimes against seemingly impossible
odds. They trusted their soldiers, and the
trust was returned through motivated
behavior that made their vision reality.

CASE STUDIES

PURPOSE

• EICHELBERGER
• HUEBNER

• GAME PLAN
• PRIORITIES
•RULES FOR
ACTION

SENIOR LEADERS
IN ACTION

It=------..__
-.----~- ----=~-~~;+~-'
! -•·-.
-- - .... - r -::-~.'.>",~
·-::=:;:::"""
1

DIRECTION
MOTIVATION
• MORAL TOUGHNESS
•WILL
• COMMAND CLIMATE

• OPERATING SYSTEMS
• ACTIONS APPROPRIATE
TO SITUATION
• EFFECTIVE STAFF TEAMS
• ASSESSMENT

--- ---

-79

CHAPTER 7

SUMMARY
To take charge and lead or command
at senior levels, it is not the "how to" of
the equation that is critical. The techniques, skills, and knowledge should be
present or one has no business leading or
commanding large organizations. Images
;:ire what matter. They engender the
creativity and innovation, empower the
spirit to create the vision of what must be
done, and provide the personal desire to
act. At senior levels the task is to relate
personal leadership or command and the
organization to the situation to achieve
the result.
Senior leaders and commanders never
forget that missions dictate what units
must do. The soldiers and their leadershow they are selected, trained, and organized-and the weapons they use all must
fit together if the organization is to
generate the required purpose, direction,
and motivation to succeed. Moreover, they
know that will and winning are inextricably linked. Without will, nothing is possible. With it, nothing is impossible. More
than any other elements, will and winning

PURPOS.E

80

are states of mind that demand the constant attention of senior leaders. They are
the proper end of all leadership and command effort to generate the required moral
ascendency to make vision a reality.
This chapter and this entire manual
have been designed to fire imaginations,
to cause one to think, to motivate, and to
require those who serve or aspire to leadership and command at senior levels to continue to perfect their ability to lead and
command. It recognizes that there are no
perfect solutions, no absolutes of human
behavior in war. There are only winners
and losers.

In putting all the demands of leadership
and command at senior levels togetherpurpose, direction, and motivation-there
are certain indicators that stand out and
can serve as a general framework for
action. They represent a "Professional
Guide" for implementing the vision which
relates directly to all that this manual
seeks to convey. The elements are shown
in the following figure.

DIRECTION

MOTIVATION

• Be yourself and have
a vision.

• Maintain the focus on the
objective and assess missions.

• Maintain soldiers and
units to fight and win.

• Consider all options in
making decisions and
communicating the intent.

• Eliminate wasteful
requirements that do not
contribute to the mission.

• Be involved and influence
the action at the critical
place and time.

• Establish a positive.
progressive command
climate.

• Be technically and
tactically. competent.

• Know the impact of
your actions on
soldiers and units.

• Understand the intent of
orders and directives from
higher authority.

• Promote unit
stability and develop
sustainment systems.

• Reward and be
enthusiastic.

• Establish priorities
and objectives.

• Build command. staff
and subordinate teams.

• Stress will and winning.

• Establish a game plan,

• Use doctrine wisely.

• Develop rules for action.

• Focus on the future.

• Develop cohesive.
winning teams.

• Communicate "why."

• Train to tough but
achievable standards.

• Be a soldier of character.

• Understand yourself
and be the example.

APPENDIX A

Principles of Leadership
Principles provide the cornerstone for
action. They are universal and are founded
on the general requirements for effective
military operations. The principles of
leadership were developed at the U.S.
Army Command and General Staff College,
Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, in 1948, as a
result of an in-depth study of military

leadership. The principles first appeared in
a CGSC instructional text and were later
incorporated in the Army's first leadership
manual published in 1951. Leadership principles represent fundamental truths that
have stood the test of time. They apply to
all leaders and commanders regardless of
rank or responsibility.

KNOW YOURSELF AND SEEK SELF-IMPROVEMENT
Professional development is a continuous process. It is fundamental to
understanding and achieving results in
military units. Through self-evaluation a
leader or commander is able to recognize
his strengths and .• weaknesses in order to
determine his particular capabilities and

limitations. As a result, he can take
specific actions to further develop his
strengths and work on correcting his weaknesses. This process enhances selfconfidence as well as facilitates the ability
to lead and command effectively at succeedingly higher levels of responsibility.

BE TECHNICALLY AND TACTICALLY PROFICIENT
This principle is key. Effective leaders
are thoroughly familiar with the operations, training, and technical aspects of
their assignments. They know demonstrating technical and tactical competence
inspires confidence. This principle is
related to the principle of "know yourself
and seek self-improvement" by including
preparation to assume the duties and

requirements of leading or commanding at
the next echelon. Combat won't allow time
for detailed preparation to assume new
responsibilities. This principle also
demands that leaders and commanders
take responsibility for staying abreast of
current military developments through
service school training, field experience,
professional reading, and personal study.

SEEK AND TAKE RESPONSIBILITY
Achieving organizational results means
accepting responsibility. While responsibility for portions of the mission may be delegated, ultimate responsibility for success or
failure is borne by the leader or commander. Leaders cannot be omnipresent
and omnipotent, but they can exercise
initiative, resourcefulness, and imagination-and be responsible. Responsibility
is demonstrated by decisiveness in times
of crisis-not hesitating to make decisions
or to act to achieve operational results.
Combat is dynamic, and leaders act in the
absence of orders to take advantage of

fleeting windows of opportunity. Leaders
see problems as challenges rather than
obstacles. Leaders accept just criticism and
admit mistakes; they encourage others to
do likewise. Any efforts to evade responsibility destroy the bonds of loyalty and
trust that must exist between leaders and
those they lead. Seeking additional responsibility will assist in preparing for duties
at higher levels of responsibility and is
essential to operating within the established intent. Leaders adhere to what they
believe is right and have the courage to
accept the results of their actions.

81

APPENDIX A

MAKE SOUND AND TIMELY DECISIONS
Combat demands rapid estimates of
situations, sound decisions, and timely
initiation of actions to accomplish those
decisions. The leader who delays or attempts to avoid making a decision may
cause unnecessary casualties as well as
failure of the mission.· Success hinges on
creative flexible leaders who can quickly
adapt, anticipate opposing force reactions,

then make and rapidly execute sou'nd
decisions. This principle is related to the
Army's emphasis on maneuver and is
consonant with taking responsibility for
one's actions. When making decisions,
leaders and commanders consider all
available information, to include the
immediate and follow-on impact that
decisions will have on soldiers and units.

SET THE EXAMPLE
The power of example is great. Leaders
win confidence and loyalty through their
actions. Soldiers emulate the behavior of
their leaders. Implementing this principle
requires both moral and physical courage.
Leaders set the example by maintaining
high, but attainable, goals and standards

and ensuring that their own actions match
what they require. This principle is related
to all the other leadership principles. It is
essential that leaders share the dangers
and hardships of their units because they
demonstrate their professionalism by everything they say and do.

KNOW YOUR SOLDIERS AND LOOK OUT
FOR THEIR WELL-BEING
This principle focuses on instilling trust
and confidence in soldiers and units. Trust
and confidence develop and sustain loyalty
and cohesion, thereby creating better units.
This is important because cohesive units
are more successful than those that are
not. Loyalty reinforces this confidence and
is the foundation for motivating soldiers.
Loyalty begins at the top-not at the

bottom-and is two-way. Soldiers who
respect their leaders expend more effort to
ensure their tasks are accomplished to the
best of their abilities. Leaders know their
soldiers in order to motivate and influence
them to accomplish the mission. Cohesion
then flows from loyalty and becomes the
bedrock which keeps units together during
the stress and chaos of combat.

KEEP YOUR SOLDIERS INFOll.MED
Battlefield success is founded upon
actions taken in the absence of orders.
Informing subordinates sµpports the ability
of subordinate leaders to make and execute
decisions within the context of the established intent. Information also greatly
reduces fears and rumors that affect the
attitude and morale of soldiers. Keeping

82

soldiers informed enhances initiative, teamwork, cohesion, and morale. Subordinates
must understand their tasks and how their
personal roles relate to accomplishing the
mission. It enhances their purposefulness,
determination, and fortitude. This principle
is directly related to establishing trust
between the leader and the led.

APPENDIX A

DEVELOP A SENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY
IN YOUR SUBORPINATES
The human emotions of pride and determination can be employed to develop a
sense of responsibility through delegation.
Effective units perform well even in the
absence of critical leaders. Delegation of
tasks with commensurate resources
develops subordinate leaders to assume

leadership roles at succeeding higher
levels. Leaders are teachers. and are
responsible for· professionally developing
subordinate leaders. Establishing an envi~
ronment where leaders accept the honest
mistakes of subordinate leaders ensures
that capable leaders are developed.

ENSURE THE TASK IS UNDERSTOOD, SUPERVISED,
AND ACCOMPLISHED
This principle is essential to accomplishing the mission and is a critical
element of effective leadership and .command. Understanding the task .ensures
that soldiers know what is to be accomplished, how it is to be accomplished, when
it is to be accomplished, and who is to
accomplish it. Since the battlefield is
dynamic and characterized by change, this
enhances the ability of soldiers to accomplish the task, even in the absence of
detailed orders or when adjustments to the
plan must be made because of unforeseen

circumstances. Supervision must take place
at the appropriate level. It ensures that
actions are performed properly and mistakes are corrected in training so that
actions will be performed properly in
combat. Care must be exercised in supervising; oversupervising stifles subordinate
leaders and insufficient supervising leads
to not accomplishing the mission. This
principle is employed with the principles
of "developing a sense of responsibility in
your subordinates" and "keeping your
soldiers informed."

BUILD THE TEAM
Cohesion is essential to success. Soldiers
will fight resolutely when they are well
trained, when they respect and have confidence in their leaders and buddies, and
when they know they are part of a good
team. Failure to foster a sense of teamwork
can produce an ineffective organization.

Soldiers must .be proficient in basic skills
and then trained to integrate those skills
into effective team operations. Performance
as a unit provides the foundation for
effective performance at each succeeding
echelon. An all-prevailing unity of effort
contributes to team integration.

EMPLOY YOUR UNIT IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ITS CAPABILITIES
This principle combines all leadership
principles and focuses on the precept of
accomplishing the mission while looking
out for the well-being of soldier,s. All units,
regardless of size, have capabilities and
limitations. While it is necessary that

leaders continually train their units on
tough and challenging tasks and strive for
improved performance, they must make.
tasks attainable. Otherwise, the unit
begins to lose confidence in itself and in
its leaders.·

83

APPENDIX B

Professional Development
Development as a military professional
is a continual and career-long process. It
takes place systematically throughout a
leader's military career. It begins on the
first day of service and continues until
retirement. It is effected through the interaction of service school instruction, unit
development programs, and individual
effort. Leaders must recognize that they
have an obligation to continue their professional development so that they maintain
their professional focus. This is particularly
true for tactical and operational leaders
and commanders who may spend a decade
or more away from service school instruction. They must take advantage of
every opportunity to further develop themselves as military professionals.

different leadership style and personality, he was effective. The common thread
is the time-honored traits and principles
that can be noted in each account.
• Professional reading program. A profes-

complex and dynamic nature of the battlefield demands that leaders at all levels
remain competent. For leaders and commanders, this entails firm knowledge of
and understanding how the tactical,
operational, and strategic levels of warfare apply to organizations and units,
regardless of their current assignment.

sionally qualified leader must also read
extensively. A professional reading program encourages creative thought, initiative, and innovation. Developing
systematic mental habits and the ability
to read critically, think analytically, and
communicate effectively is essential for
tactical-level and operational-level
leaders.
• Current events. Leaders and commanders depend on current events as one
base for future action. They read widely
and take time to absorb current events
information.
• Doctrine. Knowledge and understanding
of doctrine are essential for effective
operations on the battlefield. Doctrine
provides the base to cope with the unexpected during operations. Moreover, it
provides a common language and perspective so that leaders and commanders
at different tactical and operational
echelons can communicate with one
another.

• Historical perspective. Maintaining a

• Physical fitness. Leaders, regardless of

Some elements for establishing a sustained approach to professional development include:
• Technical and tactical competence. The

historical perspective entails not only
identifying with your unit and its heritage but also developing an appreciation
for military history. Military history is
not read merely for the sake of reading
it, but rather to ascertain those lessons
and principles that led to success or
failure on the battlefield. Additionally,
opportunities for personal exposure to
truly great leaders are limited.
Yet, opportunities to learn and better
understand the personal philosophies of
great leaders are extensive. The thoughts
of many of the Army's distinguished
leaders are related in historical accounts,
autobiographies, memoirs, and writings.
Although each leader may have had a

84

their rank or position, are soldiers.
Effective performance on the battlefield
will not happen unless one is physically
fit. Physical fitness helps soldiers to
endure the hardships of the battlefield.
In adition, it enhances one's resistance
to disease and minimizes the effects of
stress.
• Training. Where professional development needs cannot be met through individual effort, measures must be taken to
arrange for appropriate training.
• Change. Change is an endemic feature
of modern organizations. The senior
leader recognizes this reality and makes
provisions to ensure he maintains the
capability to cope.

APPENDIX C

Characteristics of Healthy
and Unhealthy Organizations

UNHEALTHY

HEALTHY
Goals are widely shared by the
members, and there is a strong and
consistent flow of energy toward
achieving excellence.
2. People feel free to signal their awareness of difficulties because they expect
the problems to be dealt with and are
optimistic that they can be solved.

l.

There is little personal investment in
organizational goals except at top
levels.

2.

People in the organization see things
going wrong and do nothing about it.
Nobody volunteers. Mistakes and
problems are habitually hidden or
shelved. Soldiers talk about unit problems at home or at the club, not with
those involved.

3. Problem solving is highly pragmatic.
In attacking problems, soldiers work
informally and are not preoccupied
with status, territory, or secondguessing "what the leader will think."
The boss is challenged constructively.
A great deal of innovative behavior
is tolerated.

3.

Egos complicate problem solving.
Status and boxes on the organizational chart are more important than
solving the problem. There is an excessive concern with form, instead of
the problem. People treat one another
in a formal and polite manner that
masks issues-especially with the boss.
Being different is frowned on.

4.

The points of decision making are
determined by such factors as ability,
sense of responsibility, availability of
information, work load, timing, and
requirements for professional and
leader development. Complaints are
handled positively.

4.

People at the top try to control as
many decisions as possible. They
become bottlenecks and make decisions with inadequate information
and advice. People complain about
decisions.

5.

There is a noticeable sense of team
play in planning, in performance, and
in discipline-in short, a sharing of
responsibility.

5.

Leaders feel alone in trying to get
things done. Somehow orders, policies,
and procedures don't get carried out
as intended.

6.

The judgment of team members is
respected.

6.

The judgment of people lower in the
organization is not respected outside
the narrow limits of their jobs.

7.

The range of problems tackled
includes soldier needs and unit
shortfalls.

7.

Personal needs and feelings are not
considered.

1.

85

APPENDIX C

UNHEALTHY

HEALTHY
8.

Collaboration is freely encouraged.
People readily request the help of
others and are willing to give in turn.
Ways of helping one another are
highly developed. Individuals and
groups compete with one another, but
they do so fairly and in the direction
of unit goals.

8.

People compete rather than cooperate.
They are very jealous of their area of
responsibility. Seeking or accepting
help is felt to be a sign of weakness.
Offering help is unthought of. People
distrust one another and "back
biting" is common; the leader tolerates this.

9.

When there is a crisis, people quickly
band together to work until the crisis
is solved.

9.

When there is a crisis, people withdraw or start blaming one another.

10.

Differing opm10ns are considered
important to decision making and
personal growth. They are dealt with
effectively, in the open. People are professional, say what they need to say,
and expect others to do the same.

10.

Conflict is mostly hidden and governed by unit politics and other
games, or arguments drag out and
frustration grows.

11. There is a great deal of on-the-job
learning based on a willingness to
give, seek, and use feedback and
advice. People see themselves and
others as capable of significant professional development and growth.

11.

Learning is difficult. People don't
approach others to learn from them
but have to learn by their own mistakes; they reject the experience of
others. They get little feedback on
performance, and much of that is not
helpful.

12. Joint critiques of progress and counseling are routine.

12. Counseling is avoided.

13. Relationships are honest. Soldiers do
care about one another and do not
feel alone.

13.

Relationships are cheapened by
maskmanship and image building.
Soldiers feel alone and lack concern
for one another. An undercurrent of
fear exists.

Soldiers are "turned on" and are
highly involved by choice. They are
optimistic. The work place is important and fun (why not?).

14. Members of the team feel locked into
their jobs. They feel stale and bored
but are constrained by the need for
security. Their behavior in meetings,
for example, is listless and docile. It's
not much fun. They get their kicks
elsewhere.

15. Leadership is flexible, shifting in style
and emphasis to suit the situation.

15. The leader is a dominating father to
the organization.

14.

86

APPENDIXC

HEALTHY

UNHEALTHY

16. There is a high degree of trust among
soldiers and a sense of freedom and
mutual responsibility. People generally
know what is important to the organization and what isn't.

16.

The leader tightly controls new ideas
and demands excessive justification.
He allows little freedom to deviate.

17.

Risk is accepted and valued for
growth and development.

17.

Minimizing risk has a very high
value.

18. "We don't like mistakes but what can
we learn from them?"

18.

"One mistake and you're out."

19. · Poor performance is confronted and a
joint solution sought.

19.

Poor performance is glossed over or
handled arbitrarily.

20.

Organizational structure, procedures,
and policies are fashioned to help soldiers get the job done and to protect
the long-term health of the organization. They are changed as the
situation demands.

20.

Organizational structure, policies, and
procedures stifle the team. Subordinates take refuge in policies and
procedures and play games with the
unit structure.

21.

There is a sense of order, yet a high
rate of innovation. Old methods can
be changed and often give way.

21.

Tradition is the only answer.

22.

The organization itself adapts swiftly
to opportunities or other changes in
. the situation because every pair of
eyes is watching and every soldier is
anticipating.

22.

Innovation is not widespread but
consolidated in the hands of a few .

23. Frustrations are rooted in the call to
action. "It's my/our responsibility to
save the ship."

23.

People swallow their frustrations: "I
can do nothing. It's their responsibility to save the ship."

24.

24.

Standards are not clear, are often
"misinterpreted" and don't seem to
relate to important combat readiness
concerns.

A lot of energy is devoted to
developing and clarifying standards
which make sense and a pride in
attaining them develops throughout
the organization. ·

APPENDIX D

Assessment
Assessing things accurately and reliably
is both an art and a science. The skill of
senior leaders anJ commanders in assessing is a major component of their effectiveness as managers and their reputation as
credible leaders.
Assessment techniques themselves have
a powerful influence on operations and are
de facto promulgators of priority. They
impact enormously on the command climate and are closely related to concepts
of mutual trust and to expectations regarding competence. Assessment techniques
and systems are closely related to communications within the organization,
particularly to feedback concepts. Further
they educate, motivate, and sensitize, or
act as a deterrent.
Assessment techniques and the production of associated statistics can
generate both useful insights and dysfunctional side effects. Inappropriate or poorly
designed assessment systems are major
sources of leader frustration and ethical
dilemmas in our Army.
The first step in designing a system to
assess something within an organization is
to define clearly the purpose of the assessment. Purposes vary, but mostly fall into
one of these categories:
• Evaluate overall progress toward one or
more organizational goals (emergency
deployment readiness exercise).
• Evaluate the efficiency of a system (late
SEERs).
• Evaluate the effectiveness of a system
(tank gunnery scores).
• Compare the relative efficiency or effectiveness of one segment of an organization with other segments (SIDPERS
timeliness rates of comparable units).

88

• Compare the behavior of individuals in
the organization with prescribed standards (physical training test scores).
• Evaluate the adequacy of systems supporting the organization (CIF lines at
zero· balance).
Any decision to assess something
should consider thoroughly the associated
costs, both short- and long-term, direct
and indirect. Objective costs include: manpower to design, administer, collect, analyze, display, and report the data; machine
data processing time; and expenses for
communicating the data or analysis to
interested parties.
Subjective costs include: possible
confusion regarding organizational priorities and philosophies; misperceptions
regarding trust and decentralization; fears
regarding unfair or irrational use of collected data; and inordinate expenditure of
energy in collecting, refining, and manipulating the data.
Types of assessment are:
• Direct observation of process or system
(receipt processing time).
• Direct observation of outcome (M16
score).
• Subjective evaluation by individual
(morale of my .Jmit).
• Subjective evaluation by groups (ARTEP
evaluation).
• Indirect or inferential (graffiti).
• Self-evaluation (OER support form).
• Perception (questionnaire).

APPENDIX D

Some parameters of assessment include:
• Interval (daily, quarterly).

Following are basic characteristics of
data in assessment:

• Duration (one year, forever),

• Accuracy, short- and long-term.

• Level at which consolidated (individual,
unit, battalion).

• Reliability, short- and long-term.

• Obtrusiveness (electronic counter of
autos, IG teams).
• Source of data (direct, files, recollection).
• Method of collection (reports, computer,
oral).
• Visibility of data at various levels.
• Confidentiality or exclusivity of data at
various levels.
• Costs of collection.

• Misinterpretation potential.
• Threat or misuse potential.
• Bloat (unplanned growth) potential.
• Perishability.
• Relevance or utility to other organizations.
• Improper manipulation potential.

89

APPENDIX E

Time Management
Time on the battlefield is immutable
and irreversible. Nothing can be substituted
for time. Worse yet, once wasted, it can
never be regained. Leaders and commanders have numerous demands on their
limited time. Time keeps getting away and
they have trouble controlling it. No matter
what their position, they cannot stop time,
they cannot slow it down, nor can they
speed it up. Yet, time needs to be effectively
managed to win.
The following are examples of time
wasters:
• Indecision.
• Inefficiency.
• Unanticipated interruptions.
• Procrastination.
• Unrealistic time estimates.
• Unnecessary errors.
• Crisis management.
• Poor organization.
• Meetings
• Micromanagement.
• Doing urgent rather than important
tasks.
• Poor planning and lack of contingency
plans.
·
• Failure to delegate or delegation of
responsibility without authority.
• Lack of priorities, standards, policies,
and procedures.
The following are examples of time
savers:
• Manage the decision-making process, not
decisions.
• Concentrate on doing only one task at a
time.

90

• Establish daily, short-, mid-, and longterm priorities.
• Handle correspondence expeditiously with
quick, short letters and memos.
• Throw unneeded things away.
• Establish deadlines for you and your
organization.
• Do not waste other people's time, particularly that of units.
• Ensure all meetings have a purpose, have
a time limit, and include only essential
people.
• Get rid of busywork.
• Maintain accurate calendars; abide by
them.
• Know when to stop a task, policy, or
procedure.
• Delegate everything you possibly can.
• Keep things simple.
• Ensure time is set aside to accomplish
high-priority tasks.
• Set aside time for reflection.
• Use checklists.
• Adjust priorities as a result of new
taskings.
Effective time management is crucial to
accomplishing the mission as well as to
avoiding wasting valuable organizational
assets. Its correct use is a major part of
achieving proper command effect. The
reality of the limits imposed by time must
be recognized and actions framed with this
consideration in mind. The task of leaders
and commanders is to learn fast, recognize
change, and act in a timely fashion but
in context to what they see as the established vision.

APPENDIX F

Setting Goa,ls and Priorities
Systematic goal setting and establishment of priorities are neither cure-alls, for
organizational problems nor are they easy,
processes. Goals and priorities are important because they orient on the future and
drive planning and performance. They require the personal involvement of the
senior leader.
Although there are many different ways
to establish goals and priorities, all
approaches are based on effective team
forecasting and active leader involvement.
The first step in setting goals and', priorities is to personally develop what the
organization should look like at some
future point-establish the vision. The
mission of the organization is crucial in
determining this desired state. The vision
is then framed in general, unmeasurable
terms and communicated to the team. For
a division, this might be "to be able to
deploy and fight in a hostile environment
for a sustained period."
The second step involves establishing
goals, and agreeing on values with the
team. Goals are also stated in unmeasurable terms, but they are more focused. For
example, "The unit must operate effectively
in a nuclear environment." This establishes
the framework of the commander's intent.
The third step is to establish objectives,
with the active participation of the team,
realizing that it is a tough bargaining
process. Objectives are stated in precise,
measurable terms such as "By the end of
the next training quarter, each battalion

will be able to conduct defensive operations
under MOPP-IV conditions," The aim,
however, is to get general ownership by
the entire team.
,
The fourth i;;tep is to determi,ne tasks.
Through tasks, objectives are accomplished.
Tasks are concrete, measurable events that
must occur. An example might be, "The
next rifle qualification for the division will
occur under MOPP-IV conditions."
,
The fifth step is to establish a priority
for the tasks. Since time is precious, establishing priorities helps subordinate leaders
and commanders determine the order in
which the tasks must be accomplished.
The final step is to follow up, measure,
and check to see if the team understands
and is doing what is required. For teams
within the organization, this kind of leader
or commander involvement validates that
the stated priorities are worthy of action.
For the leader it demonstrates his willingness to be tough enough to see the matter
through to a successful conclusion by ad"
hering to his own established priorities.
One technique for setting daily priorities
is to use a simple three-category system.
Begin each day by placing tasks in three
categories-those which have to be accomplished, those that should be accomplished,
and those that could be accomplished.
Accomplish those tasks in the high category first, then proceed to each succeeding
category. These ratings are subjective, but
they will provide a system for identifying
where one needs to invest his limited time.

91

References
REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
Required publications are sources that users must read in order to understand
or to comply with this publication.
Field Manuals (FMs)
22-100
25-100
100-1
100-5

Military Leadership
Training the Force
The Army
Operations

RELATED PUBLICATIONS
Related publications are sources of additional information. They are not
required in order to understand this publication.
Field Manuals (FMs)
26-2
101-5

Management of Stress in Army Operations
Staff Organization and Operations

OTHER PUBLICATIONS
ARC: Arts and Requirements of Command. U.S. Army Technical Report 1-191, Vol.
1-4, 1969.
Bennis, Warren, and Burt N anus. Leaders: The Strategies for Taking Charge. New York:
Harper and Row, 1985.
Bradley, Omar N. A Soldier's Story. New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1951.
Bradley, Omar N., and Clay Blair. A General's Life. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1983.
Clarke, Bruce C. Thoughts on Commandership. In Art of War Colloquim text. Carlisle
Barracks, PA: US Army War College, December 1983.
Clausewitz, Carl von. On War. Ed. and trans. Michael Howard and Peter Paret. Princeton,
NJ: Princeton University Press, 1976.

Conquer: The Story of the Ninth Army 1944-45. Washington, DC: Infantry Journal
Press, 1947.
Eichelberger, Robert L. Our Jungle Road to Tokyo. New York: The Viking Press, 1950.
Copyright 1949, 1950, Robert L. Eichelberger. Excerpts reprinted by permission of
Viking Penguin Inc.
Eisenhower, Dwight D. Crusade in Europe. New York: Doubleday and Ct>., 1948.
Fuller; J.F.C. Generalship: Its Diseases and Their Cure. In Art of War Colloquim text.
Carlisle Barracks, PA: US Army War College, December 1983.
Greene, Joseph I., ed. The Infantry Journal Reader. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, Doran
and Co., 1944.

92

Greenfield, Kent Roberts, ed. U.S. Department of the Army. Office of Military History.
Command Decisions. Washington, DC: US Government Printing Office, 1960.
Hatch, Alden. George Patton: General in Spurs. New York: Julian Messner, 1950.
Hechler, Kenneth W. The Bridge at Remagen. New York: Ballantine Books, 1957.
Knickerbocker, H. F., et al. Danger Forward. Atlanta: Albert Love Enterprises, 1947.
Luvaas, Jay, ed. Dear Miss Em: General Eichelberger's War in the Pacific, 1942-45.
Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1972.
Marshall, S.L.A. Men Against Fire. Gloucester, MA: Peter Smith, 1978. Copyright 1947,
S.L.A. Marshall. Excerpts reprinted by permission of Peter Smith Publisher, Inc.,
Gloucester, Massachusetts 01930.
Peters, Thomas J., and Nancy Austin. A Passion for Excellence, the Leadership Difference.
·
New York: Random House, 1985.
Puryear, Edgar F., Jr. Nineteen Stars. Novato, CA: Presidio Press, 1971.
Reinhardt, Hellmuth. The Training of Senior Officers. U.S. Army Military History Institute, 14 August 1951.
Ridgway, Matthew B. As told to Harold H. Martin. Soldier: The Memoirs of Matthew B.
Ridgway. New York: Harper and Brothers, 1956.
Rogers, R.J. "A Study of Leadership in the First fofantry Division During World War II:
Terry de la Mesa Allen and Clarence Ralph Huebner," Master's thesis, USA Command
and General Staff College, FT Leavenworth, KS, 1965.
·
Schell, Adolph von. Battle Leadership. Reprinted by The Marine Corps Association,
Quantico, VA, 1982. Copyright 1933, Major F. Harding. Reprinted under the authority
of the Marine Corps Association's reprinting rights.
Sebree, Edmund B. Leadership at Higher Levels of Command As Viewed by Senior and
Experienced Combat Commanders. Presidio of Monterey, CA: U.S. Army Leader~hip
Human Research Unit, December 1961.
Senior Leadership: An Annotated Bibliography of the Military and Nonmilitary Literature.
U.S. Army Technical Report 532, June 1981.
Sherman, William T. Memoirs of General William T. Sherman. Bloomington, IN: Indiana
University Press, Reprinted Westport, CN: Greenwood Press, 1972.
Slim, William. Defeat Into Victory. London: Cassell and Co., 1956. New York: David
McKay Co., 1961.
Stone, Thomas Richardson. "He Had the Guts to Say No: A Military Biography of
General William Hood Simpson." Ph.D. thesis. Houston: Rice University, 1974.

93

REFERENCES

Totten, Ruth Ellen Patton. "The Army Wife's Heritage." ARMOR, November-December
(1973), p 39.
Truscott, L.K., Jr. Command Missions. New York: E.P. Dutton and Co., 1954. Excerpts
reprinted by permission of Curtis Brown, Ltd. Copyright 1954, General L.K. Truscott, Jr.
U.S. Infantry School, Fort Benning, GA. Infantry in Battle. Washington, DC: The Infantry
Journal, 1939.
Vermillion, John M. "The Main Pillars of Generalship: A Different View," monograph,
School of Advanced Military Studies, USA Command and General Staff College, FT
Leavenworth, .KS, 1986.
Warner, Philip. "The Argonne." In Great Battles of the 20th Century. Ed. Barrie Pitt,
London: Phoebus Publishing Co:, 1977. (Military Consultant Sir Basil Liddell Hart.)
Waterman, Robert H., and Thomas J. Peters. In Search of Excellence. New York: Harper
and Row, 1982.
,
·
Wavell, Sir Archibald. Generals and Generalship. In Art of War Colloquim text. Carlisle
Barracks, Pa: US Army War College, December 1983.

SUGGESTED READINGS
Suggested readings are significant works for additional study and reflection
on leadership and on the military profession.
Ardant du Picq, Charles Jean Jacques Joseph. Battle Studies: Ancient and Modern. Trans.
· Colonel John W. Greely and Major Robert C. Cotton. Harrisburg, PA: Military Service
Publishing Co., 1947.
Blanchard, Kenneth H., Patricia Zigarmi, and Drea Zigmmi. Leadership and the One
Minute Manager. New York: Morrow, 1985.
Blumeson, Martin, and James L. Stokesbury. Masters of the Art of Command. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Co., 1975.
Clarke, Bruce C. Guidelines for the Leader and the Commander. Harrisburg, PA:
Stackpole. 1973.
Collins, Arthur S., Jr. Common Sense Training. San Rafael, CA: Presidio Press, 1978.
Dixon, Norman. On the Psychology of Military Incompetence. New York: Basic Books, 1976;
Dupuy, Trevor N. A Genius for War: The German Army and General Staff, 1807-1945.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1977.
Fehrenback, R.R. This Kind of War: A Study in Unpreparedness. N~w York: Macmillan
Co., 1963.
.
Freeman, Douglas Southall. Lee's Lieutenants: A Study in Command. 3 vols. New York:
Charles Scribner's Sons, 1942-44.

94

Freytag-Loringhoven, Hugo F.P.J. von. The Power of Personality in War. In Art of War
Colloquium text. Carlisle Barracks, PA: US Army War College, September 1983.
Fuller, J.F.C. The Conduct of War 1789-1961. New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University
Press,, 1961.
Grant, Ulysses S. Personal Memoirs of U.S. Grant. 2 vols. New York: Charles L Webster
and Co., 1885.
Hackett, John W. The Third World War: August 1985. New York: Macmillan Co., 1978.
Hersey, Paul, and Kenneth H. Blanchard. Management of Organizational Behavior:
Utilizing Human Resources. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1977.
Hunt, James G., and John D. Blair, eds. Leadership on the Future Battlefield. New York:
Pergamon-Brassey's, 1985.
Huntington, Samuel P. The Soldier and the State. New York: The Belknap Press, 1957.
J anowitz, Mor!"is. The Professional Soldier: A Social and Political Portrait. New York:
Free Press, 1971.
Johnson, Kermit D. Ethical Issues of Military Leadership. Carlisle Barracks, PA: US
Army War College, 1974.
Keegan, John. The Face of Battle (A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme).
New York: Viking Press, 1976. Reprint. New York: Vintage Books, a division of
Random House, 1977, and New York: Penguin Books, 1978.
Kellett, Anthony. Combat Motivation: The Behavior of Soldiers in Battle. Boston: KluwerNijhoff Publishing, 1982.
Lewis, Lloyd. Sherman, Fighting Prophet. New York: Harcourt, Brace and Co., 1932.
Luttwak, Edward N. The Pentagon and the Art of War. New York: Simon and
Schuster, 1984.
MacDonald, Charles B. The Battle of the Huertgen Forest. New York: J.P. Lippincott
Co., 1963.
Manstein, Erich von. Lost Victories. Ed. and trans. Anthony G. Powell. Chicago: Henry
Regnery Co., 1958. Reprint. Novato, CA: Presidio Press, 1982.
Maslow, A.H. Motivation and Personality. New York: Harper, 1954.
Montgomery of Alamein, Field-Marshall Viscount. A History of Warfare. Cleveland and
New York: World Publishing Co., 1968.
Moskos, Charles C., Jr. The American Enlisted Man: The Rank and File in Today's
Military. New York: Russell Sage Foundation, 1970.
Musashi, Miyamoto. A Book of Five Rings. Woodstock, NY: The Overlook Press, 1982.
Myrer, Anton. Once an Eagle. New York: Dell Publishing Co., 1970.

95

REFERENCES

Nye, Roger H. The Challenge of Command: Reading for Military Excellence. Garden City,
NY: Avery Publishing Co., 1986.
Patton, George S., Jr. War As I Knew It. Annotated by Paul D. Harkins. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Co., 194 7.
Pogue, Forrest D. George C. Marshall: Ordeal and Hope: 1939-1942. New York: Viking
Press, 1966.
Pratt, Fletcher. Eleven Generals, Studies in American Command. New York: William
Sloane Associates, 1949.
Rommel, Erwin. Attacks. Vienna, VA: Athena Press, 1979.
_ _ _ . The Rommel Papers. Trans. Paul Findlay and ed. B.H. Liddell Hart. New York:
Harcourt, Brace, and Co., 1953.
Ryan, Cornelius. A Bridge Too Far. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1974. Reprint. New
York: Popular Library, 1977.
Sarkesion, Sam C. Beyond the Battlefield: The New Military Professionalism. New York:
Pergamon Press, 1981.
Shaara, Michael. The Killer Angels. New York: Ballantine Books, 1975.
Summers, Harry G., Jr. On Strategy: The Vietnam War in Context. Carlisle Barracks,
PA: US Army War College, Strategic Studies Institute, 1982.
Sun Tzu Wu. The Art of War: The Oldest Military Treatise in the World. Trans. Lionel
Giles. Harrisburg, PA: Military Service Publishing Co., 1944. Reprint. Sun Tzu. The
Art of War. Trans. Samuel B. Griffith. New York: Oxford University Press, 1971.
Van Creveld, Martin L. Command in War. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1985.
Wavell, Sir Archibald P. Soldiers and Soldiering. New York: Avery Publishing Group, 1986;
Weigley, Russell F. Eisenhower's Lieutenants: The Campaign of France and Germany,
1944-1945. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 1981.
Williams, T. Harry. McClellan, Sherman, and Grant. New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers
University Press, 1962.

96

Index
~-A~~~~~~~~~

Adaptability: of military organization,
49
.
Airland battlefield, 1
leadership challenge, 2, 6
success on, 2
test of skills, 26
Analysis
in decision making, 28, 29
and Patton's household cavalry,
29
Art of war: study of, 11, 12
Assessment: competency skill, 34
parameters of, 89
purpose of, 88
types of, 88
Attributes: leadership, 9. 10, 16
developer, 10, 16
integrator, 10, 16
standard bearer, 9, 10, 16
-B

Breaking the code, 30, 31
~-c

~~~~~~~~~

Candor: soldierly value, 22
Caring for subordinates, 12, 13
duty of senior leaders, 4, 9
passing on teaching skills, 37
thru communications skills, 35
Change
adapting to, 87
in organizations, 84
Clausewitz: on genius, 11, 38
Coaching
and developers, 10
informal teaching method, 37
Cohesion
thru caring leadership, 13, 82
thru ethical leadership, 18
in military organizations, 49, 50,
52
Command: process of
characteristics of, 41
to communicate intent, 45
effective, results of, 41
primary challenge of, 41
provide direction thru, 45
Command climate: and building
teams, 63, 66

Command processes
command, 41, 42, 47
control, 41, 42, 47
horse and rider analogy, 46
integration of, 45 thru 47
leadership, 41 thru 45, 47
management, 41, 42, 43, 44, 47
Command team, 60
Commitment
soldierly value, 22
of soldiers, 56
Common cultural community, 65, 66
Common intent: and building teams,
62, 63, 66
Communication of intent
and establishing purpose, 13
to implement vision, 45
thru providing direction, 14
and understanding vision, 8, 10
Communications: high volume,
routine, 42
Communications skills, 34, 35
in building teams, 61
interpersonal, 35, 36
language, 37
listening, 36, 37
persuasion, 37, 38
teaching, 37
Competence
building thru persuasion, 37
soldierly value, 22
technical and tactical
belief in, 3
senior leader responsibility,
4, 9, 84
Competency skills
assessment, 34
coordination, 34
endurance, 33
perspective, 32, 33
risk-taking, 33, 34
Conceptual skills
creativity, 30, 31
decision making, 28, 29
forecasting, 29, 30
intuition, 31
and management process, 43, 44
Confidence: senior leader, 23, 24
effects of, 60
from organizational success, 45

Consistency
of actions, 24, 25
in decision making, 29
Coordination: competency skill. 34
control characteristic, 42
in joint and combined arena, 34
Constitution: and US ethical system,
17, 18, 22
Control: process of
characteristics of, 42 .
described, 41, 42
establish structure thru, 45
Cooperation: in organization, 86
Courage: soldierly value, 22
Creativity: conceptual skill, 30, 31
breaking the code, 30, 31
-D
Decision making: conceptual skill,
28, 29
and analysis, 29
in organization, 85
and risk taking, 33, 34
and synthesis, 2"8, 29
and timing, 29, 82
Delegation of authority; and
sustaining teams, 65, 66
Developer: senior leader attribute,
10, 16
Direction: providing, 76, 77, 78, 80
Direct leadership. See Leadership,
direct
Disciplined proficiency
in building teams, 63, 64, 66
sustainment of, 64
Doctrine, knowledge of, 84
Double standards, 20
Duty: professional value, 22
-E
Efficiency
in conflict with effectiveness, 42
control characteristic. 42
overemphasis on, 44
Eichelberger, Robert L.
case study, 68 thru 71
effective leadership,· 74
and establishing purpose, 75, 76,
80

97

and generating motivation, 78,
79. 80
and providing direction, 76, 77,
80
Eisenhower, Dwight D.
on coordination, 34
and peacetime training, 4
on persuasion, 38
Endurance
competency skill, 32, 33
mental and physical conditioning,
33
Ethical
climate, 21, 22
decisions, 21
example, 22, 25
responsibilities: leader, 18 thru
22, 25
standards, 9
visibility, 18, 25
Example: See Leaders, as examples
Expediency, 20
-F

Feedback: thru assessment, 34
Flexibility, leader: in organizations,
86
FM 22-100, ii
FM 25-100, 54
FM 100-1, 1, 6, 18, 22
FM 100-5, i, 1, 6, 13, 26
Focus
for building teams, 61
on future, 65, 66
Forecasting: conceptual skill, 29, 30
exam pies of, 30
Formal stucture, 51, 52 ·
principles, 52

--G --------~
Game plan: senior leader, 57, 58
development of, 57
Genius, 11, 38, 39
Goals
in organizations, 85
setting of, 91

--H ~-------~
Historical perspective, 11, 16, 84
House-hold cavalry: General Patton's,
29

98

Huebner, Clarence R.
case study, 71 thru 73
effective leadership, 74
and establishing purpose, 75, 76,
80
and generating motivation, 78,
79, 80
and providing direction, 76, 77,
80
-- I ----------

Identity
and warrior spirit, 55
factors. 55
Imperatives: leadership, 13, 14, 16
direction, 14, 16, 76, 77, 80
motivation, 14, 16, 78, 79, 80
purpose, 13, 14, 16, 75, 76, 80
Independent action
thru establishment of purpose,
13, 14
thru implementation of vision, 15
Indirect leadership. See Leadership,
indirect
Informal structure, 52, 53
common experiences, 53
influence of, 53
Information: to subordinates, 82
Integrator: senior leader attribute,
10, 16
Integrity: professional value, 22
Interpersonal skills: communications
skills, 35, 36
effects of, 36
of leadership process, 44
von Schell vignette, 36
Intuition: conceptual skill, 31
and decision making, 31
Involvement: senior leader
to build teams, 61, 66
to promote ethical development,
20
in setting goals, 91
in subordinate training, 54
to sustain organization, 12, 13
-J

Joint operations, 2, 34

-L

Language skills: communications
skill, 37
leaders
as coaches, 4, 9, 10
as examples, 9, 10, 82
personal factors, 59, 60
as teachers, 4, 9, 10
visibility of, 9, 10, 23, 24. See
also Ethical visibility
leadership
and Airland Battle doctrine, i, ii
challenges, 2, 6
and combat power, i, 16
Constitutional basis for, I, 7
direct, ii, 2, 3, 68
indirect, ii, 2, 3
examples of, 68
and positive outcomes, 45
and operations doctrine, 1
principles. See Principles of
leadership
leadership: command process, 42,
43 thru 45
integration with management
process,· 43, 44
interpersonal relationship of, 43
to motivate and influence, 45
and warrior spirit, 43
Leadership: senior
defined, 3, 6
as framework, 8
in peacetime, 4
responsibilities, 9. See also
Ethical responsibilities
wheel, 5, 6, 16, 25, 39, 47, 66,
79
Listening skills: communications
skills, 36, 37
lack of, 36
Loyalty
misplaced, 20
professiona I value, 22
of subordinates, 82

--M ~-------~
Management, 42
and efficiency, 43, 44
emphasis on organization, 43
focus on conceptual aspect, 43
integration with leadership
process, 44
and resources, 44

INDEX

Mental conditioning, 33
Military organization
central figures in, 48
characteristics of, 49 thru 51, 66
components of, 51 thru 60, 66
Moral toughness, 22 thru 25
Motivate and influence: leadership
process, 45
Motivation
generating, 78, 79, 80
means for building teams, 14
senior leader responsibility, 14
~-N

~~~~~~~-'-~

Noncommissioned officers: and
officer relationship, 53
~-o

~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~

Patton, George C.
house-hold cavalry, 29
and risk taking, 33
Personal factors,
of leaders, 59, 60
of soldiers, 55, 56
Perspective: competency skill, 32, 33
Perspectives
historical, 11, 16, 84
operational, 11, 12, 16
organizational, 12, 13, 16
Persuasion: corn rn unications skill 37
38
' '
examples of, 38
when inappropriate, 38
Physical fitness, 33, 84
Plan and organize: management
process, 45
Positive outlook: and commitment

56

86
Proficiency: thru cohesion, 50
Provide direction: command process,

45
Purpose: establishing of, 13, 14, 16
by General Eichelberger, 75
by General Huebner, 75, 76
-R

Objectives
establishing of, 91
Operational perspective, 11, 12, 16
Operations doctrine: and leadership,
1
Organization: thru vision, 8
Organizational
perspective, 12, 13, 16
success, 45
Organizations: characteristics of, 85
thru 87
~-p

Principles of leadership, 81 thru 83
Principles of war, ii
Priorities and objectives:
establishment of, 58, 91
Problem solving: in organizations, 85
Professional development, 81, 84,

'

Reflection
by senior leaders, 58, 59
time for, 59
Reliability: thru formal structure, 52
Resilience: in military operations, 50,

51
Responsibility. See also Ethical
responsibilities
leader, 9, 81
in subordinates, 83
Rigorous training, 55
Risk taking: competency skill, 10,

33, 34, 87
Rites of passage: and identity, 55
Role model, 18, 19, 20
Rules for action: senior leader, 58

-s
Self-confidence: senior leaders
increase subordinate trust, 45
Self-discipline, 24
Self-evaluation, 81
Selfless service: professional value,
4, 22
Shared experiences
in building teams, 64, 65, 66
symbols of, 64, 65
General Truscott vignette, 65
Shared values, 22
in building teams, 64, 65, 66
Skills: professional
communications, 34 thru 39
competency, 31 thru 34, 39
conceptual, 28 thru 31, 39
description of, 27

higher-order, 38, 39
weaknesses in, 27
Soldierly values, 22
Soldiers
concern of organization, 12
personal factors, 55, 56
Stability: and commitment, 56
Staff team, 60, 70
Standard bearer, 9, 10, 16
Standards
clarity of, 87
of dress: and identity, 55
Strength of character, 23
Stress. 60
Structure, 66
control characteristic, 42
formal, 51, 52
informal, 52, 53
Subordinate perceptions, 19
Sustainment: of effective teams, 61,

66
Symbols. See under Shared
experiences
Synthesis: use of
in decision making, 28, 29

-T
Tactical proficiency. 8I, 84
Tasks: to accomplish mission, 3, 91
Teachers. See Leaders, as teachers
Teaching: communications skill, 37
Teams: building of, 60, 61 thru 66,

83
Teamwork
obligations, 61
in organizations, 85
Technical proficiency, 81, 84
Time: management of, 40, 41, 90.
Timing: and decision making, 29: 82
Training, 84
to develop subordinates, 54, 55
results of, 55
to wartime mission, 54
Trust
and commitment, 56
in organizations, 87
~-u

~~~~~~~~~

Unit importance: and identity, 55

99

-·-v - - - - - - - - Values: of FM 100· 1, 22. See also
Shared values
Visibility. See Leaders, visibility of
Vision, ii, 2, 3, 5, 6, 66
and command process, 41
in Constitution, 7
to establish goals and priorities,

91

focus for actions, 8
goal of, 9
implementation of, 15
and leader effectiveness, 8, 16
von Schell, Adolph: communication
vignette, 36

Warrior spirit
and identity, 55
and leadership, 43, 44
and overmanagement, 43
thru shared values and
experiences, 64

--w---------

Warrior standards, 4
Well-being: of soldiers, 82
Will to win, 22

War
test of leadership, 67
test of wills. 73

~U.S.

100

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

1987-726-041/60007

FM 22-103
21 JUNE 1987
By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

JOHN A. WICKHAM. JR.
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff
Official:

R. l. DILWORTH
Brigadier General, United States Army
The Adjutant General

DISTRIBUTION:

Active Army, USAR, and ARNG: To be distributed in accordance with DA Form 12-11 A. Requirements for Military Leadership (Qty rqr block no. 180).

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
~.urn.M UMITm ITA TD"""' 1'IAW .uiD DOC:TllllC

CO"M._

PO«t llilOWllOC. ~ D t l - -

.

-.,
,,,..,,.._.
1 3 S:.P 1~

ATIH-SP (25)

MEMORANDUM FOR Commander, o.s. Army Publications a.nd Printing
Command, ATTNa ASQZ-.P D, 2461 Bisenhower Avenue,
Alexandria, VA 22331-0302
SUBJECT: ~.lr~al.-~~aJJ!.~CJO~~!~a.~~e~(~l_.:with
Res tr
· ... -icteq])~WutIO"n;ltatemelita
- -·- ... -- -

-

~

1. Field manuals listed at gJl_qAO~~e have been reviewed by the
respective proponents. Re,!_tncf!!:'L...~e~ibutio~,.,f1;Atementa:
sJIQald. Q89';h•ng*.to-.Sta~emrn~A~proV~r.pW>li~~A4~,

d.istribill.2nJ..1t _~~VmJ.t~.• ~--Putu.re. ..reprints aho~ld -~ .rel~ed
vitllth4_unliiii.I£ed.diat-sJ.hution statement.
Reco.mmend the next change to DA Pam 25-30, Consolidated Index
of Army Publications and Blank Forms, delete footnote code 09 for
these publicat.iona. In addition, request publications be made
available to National Technical Information Service (NTIS).
2.

3.

Enclosure
is lis t-e.xtrac teC:'.

below-

-~ ---'

-

Point of contact is Caroline Whiteed, DSN 680-2237, or COMM

(804) 727-2237.

FOR TBB COMMANDER:

Bncl
as

WILLIAM H. GUERRA
Colonel, GS
Deputy Chief of Staff
for Infurmation Management
=

CP:
Commander,
~ CONSOLIDATED LIST OF ADTL THAT MAY BAVB_ 'l'ffi~
USAAVNC (ATZQ-TDO-P)
' RESTRICTIVE DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT REMOVED
OSAIC ' Fort Huachuca (ATZS-TD
(UPDATED SEP 94)
70SAOC&S (ATSL-CD-CS)
OSASSI (ATSG-TSR)
t.JSACASCOH (ATCL-CLD)
USABSC (BSO-P-ST)
. USAJPKSWCS (AO,JK-DTD- M)
FM 24-22
FM 5 4-30

FM 24-24

Commandant,

FM 24-27
FM 24-30

OSAADASCB (ATSA-DT)
'OSAARMS (ATSB-AC)
(CONT)

FM 24-40
FM 25--&
FM 25-5

l

PM 25-100
FM 25-101
~ 26 - 2

FM 54-40
PK 54 -50
f"M 55-1

FH 55 - 9
FM 5.5-10

FM 55-13
P'>1 55-20
FM 55~11
PM 55-:50

,..

I
,~

:...

.

CONSOLIDATED LIST OF ADTL THAT MAY BAVE TBE
RESTRICTIVE DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT REMOVED
(UPDATED SEP 94)

'
FM 1-100
FM 1-101

FM
FM
FM
FM
FM

1-102
1-103
1-104
1-107
1-108
FM 1-109
FM 1-111
FM 1-112
FM 1-113
FH 1-114
FH 1-116
FM 1-117
FM 1-11e
FM 1-120
FM 1-140
FM 1-202
FM 1-203
FM 1-220
FM 1-230
FH 1-240
FH 1-300
FM 1-302
FH 1-400
F:-t 1-402
FH 1-500
FM 1-506
FH 1-508
FM 1-511
FM 1-513
FH 5-36
FM 5-100
FH 5-101
FM 5-103
PM 5-116
FH 5-134
?H 5-233
F'?i 5-335
m :s-551
?'M 6-2
?~1 6-15
~i :5-15
?!! S- 1 6-1
.:'}4 5- 1 5-2
·7,1

;- -1.6 - J

FM 6-20
FM 6-20-1
FM 6-20-2
FM 6-20-10
FM 6-20-30
FM 6-20-40
FM 6-20-50
FM 6-30
FM 6-40
FM 6-40A
FM 6-50
FM 6-60
FM 6-121
FM 6-141-1
FM 6-300
FM 7-7
FM 8-27
FM e-34
FM 9-6
FM 9-13
FM 9-35
FM 9-38
FM 9-43-1
FM 9-43-2
FM 9-43-3
FH 9-59
FM 9-207
FH 10-18
FM 10-27
FH 10-52
FH 10-52-1
FM 10-67
FM 10-69
FM 10-70
FM 10-70-1
FM 10-200
FM 10-427
FM 11-29
FH 11-30
FM 11-37
FM 11-38
PM 11-41
~ 11-4.3
P':-1

11-~4

~~

11-43
11·- 51

Y ·~

FM 11-53
FM 11-54
FM 11-55
FM 11-58
FM 11-59
FM 11-70
FM 11-75
FH 11-76
FM 11-82
FM 12-6
FM 12-50
FM 14-6
FM 14-7
FM 16-1
FM 19-1
FM 19-4
FM 19-10
FM 19-15
FM 19-20
FM 19-25
FM 19-30
FM 19-35
FM 19-40
FM 19-60
FM 20-22
FM 21-16
FM 21-17
FM 21-75
FM 21-76
FM 21-305
FM 21-306
FM 22-9
FM 22-101
FM 22-103
FM 23-24
FM 23-27
PH 23-35
FH 23-67
FM 23-91
FM 24-1
FM 24-2
FM 24-Hl
FH 24-11
FM 2:.1-1 .?.
F jo1 2-i ··HI
F.~

2-1 ·-..:. 5•

FM 24-22
FM 24-24
FM 24-27
FM 24-30
FM 24-40
FM 25-4
FM 25-5
FM 25-100
FM 25-101
FM 26-2
FM 31-19
FM 31-24
FM 31-25
FM 31-27
FM 31-82
FM 34-10-1
FM 34-13
FM 34-35
FM 34-37
FM 34-40-2
FH 34-40-7
FM 34-80
FM 34-82
FM 34-95
FM 39-95-1
FM 38-746
FM 43-12
FM 43-20
FM 44-1
FM 44-3
FM 44-4
FM 44-5
FM 44-8
FM 44-11-2
FM 44-15
FM ' 44-15-l
FM 44-16
FH 44-13
'?M 44-18-1
?H 44-30
?'~ 44-31
?H 44-53
FM 44-90
?!·I 44 - 100
:~·I 45-1
"e'H

FM 54-30
FM 54-40
FM 54-50
FM 55-1
FM 55-9

FM 55-10
FM 55-15
FM 55-20

FM 55-21
FM 55-50
FM 55-60
FM 55-65
FM 55-501
FM 55-501-2
FM 55-509
FM 55-509-1
FM 55-509-3
FM 55-511
FM 63-1
FM 63-2
FM 63-2-1
FH 63-3
FM 63-4
FH 63-20
FM 63-21
P.H 63-23
FM 63-24
FH 71-2
FM 71-100
FM 71-100-1
FM 100-2-1
FM 100-2-2
FM 100-15
FM 100-15-1
FM 100-22
FM 100-37
FM 101-5
FM 101,...5-1
FM 700-80
F"{ 701-sa

-

3 ~ -23

~

. !

