FM 22·100
MILITARY LEADERSHIP

-EADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

JUNE 1973

FM 22-100

PREFACE
Since it was created in 1775, the US Army has had effective leadership.
Our history is filled with examples of men who, in this nation's times of
need, have led our Armed Forces successfully in conflicts throughout
the world. Regardless of how these men came to be good leaders, their
actions reflected certain fundamental truths concerning the leadership
of men. These truths have evolved into what we have come to know as the
principles of leadership--eleven basic guidelines which have stood the
test of time for use in leading men.
Despite the constancy of these tried and true principles, the techniques
by which they are applied cannot remain unchanged. They must be
systematically reassessed, modified, and improved if we are to lead
effectively. The soldier of today is not the same as the soldier of
yesterday, and the soldier of tomorrow will also be different. The
leadership techniques that we apply must reflect an expanded recognition and understanding of this fact and take fully into account the
soldier's increasing level of education, his changing attitudes and
values, and the complex social pressures bearing on him.
This is not to imply that our leadership goals have changed. Our Army
has been and must always be mission-oriented. Thus, our ultimate
objective-our primary leadership goal-must continue to be mission
accomplishment. This goal, however, is fully compatible with a leadership approach that includes reasonable consideration of the men being
led.
Any mission-oriented organization operates on the basis of authority
vested in specific persons. True leadership, however, is the art of
gaining influence with others without the exercise of physical force or
reliance on authority. Stated another way, it is the ability to cause
others to willingly accept specified goals as their own and to work
wholeheartedly for the achievement of those goals. One factor that
affects a person's ability to gain influence with others is the position he
holds within the group, together with the authority associated with that
position. However, this is but a single element in the total leadership
equation. Leadership that is based primarily on position and authority
and is lacking empathy will, in the long run, prove ineffective.
The military leader is ultimately responsible for any decisions that are
made. He also must take into full account situational factors influencing the accomplishment of his mission. Consequently, there are times
when he necessarily must be directive in his approach. Because missions are accomplished by people, success or failure hinges generally on
the leader's ability to identify intelligently with others, to understand
the "why" of human behavior, and to translate that understanding into
appropriate leadership techniques. A leader need not be a psychologist,
but he must have a clear valid understanding of his men and of their
attitudes, aspirations, and motivations. To lead well he must strive
constantly to maintain the best possible balance between consideration
of the needs and goals of his unit and the needs and goals of the men of
whom it is comprised.

FM 22-100

Over the past two decades there has been a great deal of research
conducted in the field of leadership. We now know much more about
individual and group behavior, the forces that motivate people, human
relations, and the role of the leader in influencing his men. Diligent
study and careful analysis of this pool of research-based knowledge will
provide many ideas for innovative improvement of the techniques by
which we apply the principles of leadership. Thus armed, today's leader
will be far less reliant on a trial-and-error approach than were his
predecessors.
This text is not intended to be the final answer to leadership in the
Army, but to serve as a foundation upon which all leaders can build.
For this reason a bibliography is provided for further reading and
study.
Users of this manual are encouraged to submit recommended changes
or comments to improve it. Comments should be keyed to the specific
page, paragraph, and line of text in which the change is recommended.
Reasons will be provided for each comment to insure understanding
and complete evaluation. Comments should be prepared using DA Form
2028 (Recommended Changes to Publications) and forwarded direct to
the Commandant, US Army Infantry School, Fort Benning, Georgia
31905.

ii

*FM 22-100

HEADQUARTERS
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON, D.C., 29 June 1973

FIELD MANUAL }

No. 22-100

MILITARY LEADERSHIP
Page

PREFACE - - - ------------ - --- - -------------------- - ---------------------INTRO DU CT I 0 N -------------------- -----------------------------------PART ONE
CHAPTER 1.
2.
3.

4.

LEADERSHIP FUNDAMENTALS
The Question-Command, Management, or Leadership
Traits and Principles of Leadership --- --- -------- --------Professionalism and Ethics - - ---- ------------------------Discipline ---------------------- -------------------------

v
1-1
2-1
3-1
4-1

PART TWO

HUMAN BEHAVIOR

CHAPTER

7.
8.
9.
PART THREE

Why Study Behavior? ------------------------------------ 5-1
Values and Attitudes ----------------- - - ------------------ 6-1
Human Needs - ---------- - --------------------------- --- - 7-1
Motivation --------------- -------- --- -------------------- 8-1
Stress -------- -------------- ---------------------------- 9-1
APPLICATION

CHAPTER 10.
11.

Decisionmaking ----------------- - ------------------------ 10-1
Communication ----------------------- ---------------- - 11-1

12.
13.

Counseling ----------------- ------------------- --------- - 12-1
The Effective Leader ------------------------------- ------ 13-1

5.
6.

PART FOUR

CONTEMPORARY HUMAN PROBLEMS

CHAPTER 14.
15.
16.

Drug Abuse ------------- - --------- ---------------------- 14-1
Race Relations -------------- - - --------- ---- -------------- 15-1
Prevention of AWOL --------------------------------- ---- 16-1

PART FIVE

SITUATIONAL STUDIES
Situational Studies ----- ---------------------------Studies-1

BIBLIOGRAPHY - ------------------------------------------------------------Bib-1
*This manual supersedes FM 22-100, 1November1965.

TAGO 86v2A

iii

INTRODUCTION
The Army needs professional leaders who have high standards, who
possess great skill in their roles, and who are willing to study and learn
to achieve their full potential. Being a military leader has always been a
tough, demanding, but rewarding job because of the high standards and
responsibilities involved. The challenge facing today's leader is greater
than ever.
Rapid technological and social change have created a highly complex
leadership role for the professional soldier. While today's young soldier
is as effective a fighting man as our country has produced, he is more
challenging to lead for two reasons: (1) the complexity of the skills he
must be taught in order to perform his duties; and (2) his variant
values and attitudes, brought about by the rapidity with which social
change has taken place in the past 15 to 20 years. The service school
system and the instruction of junior leaders in training management
help meet the first aspect of the challenge. Because of the latter reason,
however, leaders often have difficulty in understanding and communicating with their followers and vice versa. Technological advances in all
communication media, especially television, have made the young
soldier of today more knowledgeable of what is going on in the world
than his predecessors. He has also been taught in school to think more
for himself and to question anything which is not clearly based on logic
and reason. Finally, he is the product of an affluent society--one which
has provided him with more material things and has given him more
freedom of action than ever before.
All these factors dictate that the military leader must have a better
understanding of individual and group behavior and be more proficient
in the execution of his total responsibilities. Such professionalism is
developed in many ways, but a key element is the willingness to study.
PURPOSE AND SCOPE

The purpose of this publication is to provide the military leader with a
basic reference for the study of individual and group behavior and the
principles and techniques of applied leadership. There is no standard
solution to becoming a good leader, and none will be presented here.
Leadership is intangible, hard to measure, and difficult to describe.
However, by understanding and applying what is presented here, the
leader will understand what motivates his subordinates, and will develop a personal framework for leadership.
A basic understanding of human behavior is a prerequisite to good
leadership. Although the study of successful leaders is helpful and can
provide a background to assist in forming an individual leadership
style, each leader must recognize that he cannot completely adopt the
style, method, or attitude of another man and expect to be totally
effective. In recent years, a wealth of new information in the field of
human behavior has been developed through both military and civilian
efforts. The material presented here is a condensation of this new
information and represents the latest tllinking concerning the relationv

FM 22-100

ship between human behavior and good leadership as it applies to the
military.
In addition to behavioral research, the Army has conducted a number of

studies to determine the type of leadership required for today, as well as
for the future. These studies critically examined the time-honored
principles of leadership in an effort to determine their continuing
worth. All of the studies concluded that the leadership principles are
still valid. They also indicated, however, that it is necessary to better
prepare our leaders in the area of human behavior and motivation so
that the principles can be more effectively applied. A good understanding of leadership principles and the "why" of behavior, coupled with
improved application ofleadership techniques, will assist each leader to
meet the high standards required today.

CONCEPT

The concept of leadership for the United States Army is based on
accomplishing the organizational mission while preserving the dignity
of the soldier. This requires that a continuing effort be made to
maintain a proper balance at all times between fulfillment of the goals
of the organization and the needs and goals of its members. Leadership
behavior must be, therefore, flexible in technique and personal in
vi

FM 22-100 .

application to motivate the soldier, promote and maintain a high state
of discipline and responsiveness, and develop a combat-effective unit.

The ultimate objective of leadership in a military organization will
always be the successful accomplishment of the mission. In sti·iving to
achieve this goal, the leader must accept full personal responsibility for
all his decisions and must continually assess the situational environment in which he is operating. Situations may arise in which the leader
must take a directive approach and limit to varying degrees the extent
vii

FM 22-100

to which his subordinates participate in the decisionmaking process.
Even then the needs and goals of the soldier should not be ignored. The
leader always must keep uppermost in his mind that unit missions are
accomplished by the people who comprise the unit. If they are to
contribute willingly and wholeheartedly to the accomplishment of those
missions, the leader must always exert every reasonable effort to
consider their needs.
Too often leaders focus their efforts on short-range goals at the unnecessary expense of their subordinates. In the long run this can be detrimental to both the soldier and the unit. Effective leadership is, on the
other hand, accomplishing the mission with a minimum expenditure of
time and effort and an appropriate balance between unit, group, and
individual needs and goals.
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT

Developing leadership ability is a twofold task. The first task-that of
learning the principles and techniques of leadership and the aspects of
human behavi.or--can be accomplished in an acad~mic environment
through the use of te:xtboo.ks, case studies, and role-playing exercises.
The second task-that of applying what has beeJl learned--can take
place only in a real-:world enyironment~ The two ..tasks';e'Qtn,plement and
reinforce each other. The leader, after studying, can apply his. knowledge in his unit, whether.in the field or in garrison. If.situations arise
which ~~e))t him../with d•i(fj~ulty, he should .return· to· his texts, get
guidance fr.om his superiors, and discuss the problem with others. Only
in this way can he profit fully from his experience and achieve
maximum improvement.
At the same time he is learning more about human behavior and how to
apply that knowledge, the leader must increase his tactical and technical proficiency. In the long run, professional job competence is an
absolute prerequisite to truly effective leadership and to gaining influence with subordinates, peers, and superiors alike. Only through the
simultaneous development of his skills in both areas can the leader
mold the men for whom he is responsible into a willing, responsive,
motivated team, capable of efficient operations.
For a leader to achieve his potential, he must have the opportunity to
exercise his skills. The junior leader especially must be given the
opportunity to use his own initiative even though mistakes due to lack
of knowledge and experience, as well as errors in judgment, may occur.
Senior leaders, because of their greater experience and their desire to
insure that the job is done right the first time, too frequently do the
junior leader's job for him. The junior leader will not improve, however,
unless he is given an opportunity to perform on his own. This opportunity should be granted during training on routine tasks, where possible,
to prepare him to act in critical situations where lives could be lost or
equipment damaged and destroyed. The senior leader who fails to grant
his subordinates the opportunity to learn by experience is negligent in
fulfilling one of his most important responsibilities-that of developing
effective leaders who will eventually replace him.
ORGANIZATION

This publication is based on the concept that a leader can study and
learn to make himself a better leader. Part I deals with the funda. menta:ls of leadership, emphasizing the le.ader's expected behavior and
personal standards. Part II is primarily devoted to a study of the
viii

FM 22-100

behavior of subordinates~ both singly and as a group. Part III integrates the information previously presented into a discussion of.some
of the processes and procedures used by the leader to accomplish the
mission. Part IV presents the major contemporary issues facing Army
leaders and Part V presents a number of situational studies.

Ix

FM 22- 100

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 1

In military as well as in civilian usage, the
functions of command, management, and leadership become a question of interpretation due
to their interrelationship. To enable each leader
to begin the study of leadership with a common
foundation, it is necessary to understand these
terms, their definitions, and their relationship
in the Army.

for their actions. Additionally, leaders are responsible for exercising their authority to accomplish their mission.

COMMAND

COMMAND IS THE AUTHORITY A PERSON
IN THE MILITARY SERVICE LAWFULLY
EXERCISES OVER SUBORDINATES BY
VIRTUE OF HIS RANK AND ASSIGNMENT
OR POSITION. What does this mean to the
officer or noncommissioned officer? It provides
the legal basis for exercise of the broad activities of leadership and management and is derived from the position to which he is assigned.
Command is based primarily on authority delegated through the chain of command. Authority
is the legitimate power of a leader to direct
those subordinate to him or to take action
within the scope of his position. Responsibility
is an integral part of the leader's authority. All
Army men are morally and legally accountable

)t.i~ ..- - --

~

-

1-1

FM 22-100

The guidelines for the responsibility and authority exercised by officers and noncommiss io ne d officers come from regulations,
manuals, orders, and other directives; but these
do not cover all situations. There are times
when a leader must decide on a course of action
without the help of gt!idelines. In these situations the guide lines for the commander's or
leader's authority are solely his ability to judge
what is right. He then exercises responsibility
and authority based on his personal judgment
and experience.
What is the relationship of the leader to responsibility and authority? At all levels of
command, the leader is responsible for what his
men do or fail to do, as well as for the physical
assets of his unit. He is responsible down the
chain of command for his subordinates and up
the chain of command for mission accomplishment. He has the authority to direct his men's
actions toward the accomplishment of missions
assigned by superiors and to generate activities
such as training and maintenance which will

~

~ \\

#_JNDIRECT INFLUENCE
ON SUBORDINATES
1-2

prepare his unit to accomplish its missions. The
leader's responsibility and authority do, however, differ in degree depending on his position.
If the proportion of resources alone is considered, it is obvious that with higher position
greater responsibility and hence more authority
to meet this responsibility is realized. Because
of the Army's system of advancement, the increase in responsibility and authority go handin-hand with increased experience and higher
rank.
The commander is responsible for attainment
of the numerous goals of his organization. To
attain them, he must use good leadership techniques in dealing with his men and good management techniques in organizing and
providing the resources necessary to accomplish the mission.
MANAGEMENT

Management is defined as: THE PROCESS OF
PLANNING, ORGANIZING, COORDINATING, DIRECTING, AND CONTROLLING RE-

FM 22-100

SOURCES SUCH AS MEN, MATERIAL,
TIME. AND MONEY TO ACCOMPLISH THE
ORGANIZATIONAL MISSION.
As can be seen from this definition, the commander is involved in all organizational activities. When a commander is unable to personally
supervise each activity, he delegates his authority and thereby uses his subordinates to assist
him in the accomplishment of the mission.

Ideally, the process of leadership would get the
willing cooperation of subordinates through
persuasion. Persuasion does not mean that the
leader takes a vote to determine the unit's
course of action or that his decision is open to
argument from his subordinates. It means that,
because of the leader's sound judgment, knowledge, and personal relationships with his men,
he is able to direct his men's attitudes as well as
their behavior, toward the attainment of organizational goals. Because of the Army's combat
mission, and the characteristics of subordinates, persuasive leadership alone is not always
effective or appropriate. It is sometimes necessary to apply a more authoritarian form of
leadership in combination with persuasion.
Of the resources available to the manager, men
are the most important. This resource is the
foundation for the employment of the other
resources. The manager uses the process of
leadership to control this critical resource.
LEADERSHIP

There are many definitions of the term leadership. These definitions have two common elements: the accomplishment of a mission or task
and the influence of one man, the leader, on
another man or group of men. If these definitions are combined into one which directly
applies to military leadership, we can say that:
MILITARY LEADERSHIP IS THE PROCESS
OF INFLUENCING MEN IN SUCH A
MANNER AS TO ACCOMPLISH THE
MISSION.
Leadership involves the personal relationship
of one person to another, the ability of a commander to use his personality to directly influence his subordinates to accomplish a mission.

How do leadership and management relate? At
lower levels, leaders lead primarily through
face-to-face dealings with their men. They are
also managers, but most of the physical resources they use are controlled from a higher
level within the chain of command. For example, th~ squad leader devotes most of his efforts
toward influencing people and o~ly a small
portion of his efforts toward managing materials and ti me.
As a leader moves up the chain of command, the
size of his unit increases but his direct influence on the actions of the unit decreases. For
example, it is difficult for a company commander to personally influence all of the men in
his unit. He can, however, by working through
his staff and subordinate leaders, influence his
unit to accomplish the mission. He uses leadership in dealing with his subordinate leaders by
personally influencing their actions. Through
their actions he gets things done.
As a man gains a higher position, he increases
the extent to which he must use all of the
1-3

FM 22-100

resources. For example, a mechanized infantry
battalion commander is responsible for a large
number of vehicles of various types. He cannot
personally supervise all aspects of the maintenance program to insure that the vehicles are
combat ready. He can, however, by working
through his motor officer and other subordinates, insure that his vehicles are properly
maintained. The battalion commander manages
his vehicle resources through his chain of
command and staff who in turn must supervise
the mechanics and drivers who actually
perform the maintenance. The battalion commander insures that this is done by personal
spot checks, reports, and inspections.

SUMMARY

A commander must wear two hats-he must be both a leader and a
manager. He will not succeed if he does not exercise leadership when
dealing with his subordinates and does not properly manage the resources of his organization. Because the leader must use people to
employ time, material, and money, he must be able to influence them to
accomplish the organizational mission. A leader must not only adhere
to the principle of leadership, but he must understand the "hows" and
"whys" of his men's behavior, and of his own as well. This manual will
emphasize the leadership aspects of command.

1-4

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 2

TRAITS

When a study of the personalities of a group of
successful leaders was conducted some time
ago, fourteen traits were identified as common
to the group. Possession of these traits by itself
does not guarantee success, but apparently they
are most desirable in all leaders.
Although these traits are a good guide for the
desirable personality development of a leader,
the mission, the personalities of subordinates,
and the situation will have a direct effect on

which traits the leader must apply. They are not
all-indusive, but serve as those which are most
desirable in a military leader. The traits are:
Bearing
Integrity
Courage (Moral and Physical) Judgment
Decisiveness
Justice
Dependability
Knowledge
Endurance
Loyalty
Enthusiasm
Tact
Initiative
Unselfishness
2-1

FM 22-100

looks nor acts worried. Good leaders know that
their apparent confidence in themselves, their
troops, the equipment, and the outcome of a
situation is reflected in their men.
Frequent irritation, loss of temper, and vulgar
speech indicates a lack of self-control or selfdiscipline. A leader who cannot control himself
cannot expect to control others. The job of a
leader frequently requires that he make verbal
corrections. To use profane or obscene language
or to talk down to subordinates, especially when
giving orders, risks friction, resentment, quarreling, and even insubordination. Men resent
being sworn at by their leaders. They feel, and
rightly so, that immoderate language is more
often an expression of anger directed at them.
Avoid verbal condemnation of an entire group.
It is unlikely that the leader will have an entire
unit which deserves wholesale reprimand or
punishment. The resentment created in subordinates that are unfairly included in mass disc i pli nary actions makes this an unsound
practice.
Like profanity, sarcasm and irony often leave
men in doubt as to exactly what the leader
means. Even a bantering tone should not be
used often. The American soldier is often too
accustomed to wisecracking to resist replying
in the same manner when he is on the receiving
end of such remarks. At the same time, any wise
leader will know that in some circumstances a
certain amount of joking is helpful. During
periods of exhaustion and discouragement,
humor may impart confidence or relieve tension. Often humor is well received as a means of
implying sympathy and understanding or cooperation in the midst of difficulty. This method
is very effective when employed by those leaders
who display great dignity.
BEARING

A man's bearing is his general appearance,
carriage, deportment, and conduct. The bearing
of the leader establishes the standard which
affects suborainates, peers, and superiors. His
carriage should be upright, his general appearance and condition of his clothing and equipment exemplary. His appearance and manner
should reflect alertness, energy, competence,
and confidence. Through the control of voice
and gestures he can exert firm and steadying
influence over those around him. Few things
can steady the morale of troops more than the
realization that their leader, with full knowledge of the difficulties of a situation, neither
2-2

Dignity is also an essential element in the
leader's bearing which should not be overlooked.
It implies a state of being honorable and requires the control of one's actions and emotions.
A leader who makes a spectacle of himself
through loudness, drink, or drugs quickly loses
the respect of his men. To develop good bearing
a leader should concentrate on achieving and
maintaining the highest standards in appearance and conduct.
COURAGE

Courage is a mental quality that recognizes
fear of danger or criticism, but enables a man
to proceed in the face of it with calmness and

FM 22-100

firmness. It is a quality of mind that gives a
man control over fear, enabling him to accept
responsibility and act properly in a threatening
situation. Courage exists in a moral, as well as
a physical sense. Moral courage means knowing
and standing up for what is right in the face of
popular disfavor. A leader who has moral courage will admit his errors, but will enforce his
decisions when he is sure he is correct. To help
attain and demonstrate courage, the leader
should study and understand his reactions to
fear and control his fear by developing selfdiscipline and calmness. He must be orderly in
his thought process and take care not to exaggerate adversity. He must stand for what is
right in the face of popular disagreement and
accept blame when he is at fault.
DECI SI VENESS

The leader should be able to rn ake decisions
promptly and to state them in a clear, forceful
manner. Many situations have more than one
solution. The wise leader gets all the facts,
weighs one against the other, then calmly and
quickly arrives at a sound decision. Decisiveness is largely a matter of practice and experience. The leader should also keep in mind that
many sound ideas originate at the subordinate
level. He should solicit opinions of his subordinates when appropriate. A positive approach,
little waste of time, objectivity, timely analysis,
and sound evaluations of opinions made by
others all contribute to the development of decisiveness in the leader.
DEPENDABILITY

Dependability, the ce1·tainty of proper performance of duty, is a quality the leader must develop. A dependable leader can be relied upon to
carry out any activity with willing effort. This
willing and voluntary support of the policies
and orders of the chain of command does not
mean blind obedience. Most commanders will
listen to the suggestions of their subordinates,
but on<'e t.he <'ommander makes the final decision, the subordinate must give it his complete
and energetic support.
The leader who has a high sense of duty will
continually put forth his best efforts in an
attempt to achieve the highest standards of
performance. He will also subordinate personal
interests to military requirements.

ENDURANCE

Endurance, the mental and physical stamina
measured by the ability to withstand pain, fatigue, stress, and hardship, is akin to courage.
It is an important quality of leadership which
leaders must have if they are to merit the
proper respect from subordinates. Subordinates
may view a lack of endurance in a combat
situation as cowardice. Likewise, the leader's
lack of endurance makes him a liability rather
than the asset he should be. The leader sets the
standards for a unit most effectively by example. The leader must display an acceptable, if
not superior, level of endurance. He may develop his endurance and stamina by regular
participation in strenuous physical and mental
activities. Frequent self-administered tests can
give the leader a measure of his endurance
level. Self-discipline and fortitude are essential
in developing and maintaining endurance.

2-3

FM 22-100

sible. Closely associated with initiative is resourcefulness, the ability to deal with a
situation in the absence of normal resources or
methods. Under combat conditions, the unexpected is often encountered. In these situations,
failing to act cannot be excused. When normal
resources do not support a situation, another
method must be found to solve the problem.
The ability to anticipate future unit missions is
also important. A leader who spends much of
his time reacting to situations or "putting out
fires" rather than anticipating and planning
ahead often finds himself unable to lead his
unit efficiently.
Caution, judgment, and discretion must be used
in reaching decisions. To aid development of
initiative, stay alert, try to recognize the task
that needs to be done, and then do it. Use
available resources efficiently.
INTEGRITY

ENTHUSIASM

Enthusiasm is the display of sincere interest
and zeal in the performance of duties. This
requires the lea<ler to be optimistic and cheerful. The leader must, therefore, willingly accept
the challenges of his profession and determine
to do the best job possible. This attitude, when
developed, helps create a good unit. Whether in
training or combat, enthusiastic troops are very
helpful in accomplishing the mission. A most
important step in instilling enthusiasm in men
is explaining the "Why" of the leader's actions.
If soldiers believe in, and understand a mission, they usually do their best to accomplish it.
To a void becoming stale, set aside a brief period
daily to relax. Capitalize on success. Enthusiasm is contagious an<l nothing will develop it
more than the success of a unit or an individual.
INITIATIVE

Initiative, or taking action in the absence of
orders, is often required of leaders. Men develop
respect and trust for a leader who meets new
and unexpected situations with prompt action.
One way to encourage initiative in men is to
assign them tasks commensurate with their
grade and experience level. This allows them to
work out the details and complete the tasks.
This method frees the leader from a number of
details so that he can devote more time to
monitoring the activities for which he is respon2-4

The uprightness and soundness of moral principles, the quality of truthfulness and honesty
describe integrity. In the military, the lives of
thousands are placed in the hands of a few
leaders. These leaders must have unquestionable integrity. Honesty, sense of duty, and moral
principles must be placed above all else. Reports
from the small unit leader to the highest headquarters must contain true facts because the
seemingly unimportant report might have great
effect. Sound estimation and planning at high
levels are impossible without accurate information supplied throughout the chain of command.
A leader who proves himself unreliable or of
questionable integrity has no place in the military.
JUDGMENT

Judgment is the ability to logically weigh facts
and possible solutions on which to base sound
decisions. Anticipation of situations, avoidance
of hasty decisions, and the application of
common sense wfll insure success in most situations with which the leader is confronted.
Technical knowledge plays an important role in
many judgment situations. The lack of technical expertise in a given situation may turn
what would ordinarily be a sound decision into
a disaster. The leader who always appears to
make sound decisions is the one who has personal knowledge or the presence of mind to
confer with experts about those subjects in
which he lacks knowledge. Often a sign of good
judgment is knowing when to ask a question.

FM 22-100

Many inexperienced leaders fall victim to the
old saying, "If you ask a silly question, you'll
get a silly answer." lt would be more correct to
adhere to the saying, "The only silly question is
the question not asked."
JUSTICE

The military leader gives reward and punishment according to the merits of the case in
question. lmpartiality is necessary in all situations requiring a judgment. Prejudice of any
kind cannot be accepted. Each decision made by
a leader is a test of fairness which is observed
by subordinates and superiors alike. A careless
mistake can destroy a reputation of fairness
that took months to establish. When confronted
with a situation requiring justice, the leader
must be fair, consistent, and prompt. In instances involving discipline, individual consideration must be given in each case. Although
cases may appear similar, no two are exactly
alike. The persons, situation, and circumstances are peculiar to each case. In some situations, mass punishment may appear to be the
answer. Even in the case where guilt is obvious
in each member of the group, they should still be
dealt with singly.

it is based on his actions to protect his subordinates from abuse. Yet, that same leader can lose
that respect by discussing a subordinate' s personal problem about which he has learned during a counseling session. Loyalty to a
commander is often erroneously viewed as indicative of being a "Yes Man." Total agreement
with every order is seldom experienced
throughout a military career. The good leader
does not allow his personal opinion to interfere
with his mission, nor does he give the impre ssion of disagreement with orders when relaying
them to his men. He views his orders as his
superior's method of dealing with the situat ion,
and supports them wholeheartedly. As a leader,
it is important to have every action reflect
loyalty to subordinates, the unit, superiors, the
Army, and to the United States.
TACT

Tact is the ability to deal with others in a
respectful manner. The leader who displays tact

Justice also has a positive effect in the form of
awards and decorations. The effective leader
does not fail to i·ecognize subordinates who are
worthy of commendation or award. The leade1·
who uses nothing but punishment will destroy
his unit's morale. Additionally, the leader who
establishes favorites is just as destructive to
unit morale as the one who only punishes.
KNOWLEDGE

The leader should develOp a program of learning to keep himself abreast of current developmen ts in his military specialty, command
policies, and his local and world communities.
]field manuals, training directives, after-action
reports, Department of the Army reading lists,
magazines, newspapers, and periodicals are
valuable aids towards this goal. Serious discussion, research, and experience also contribute
to broadening the leader's knowledge.
LOYALTY

Loyalty is the quality of faithfulness to
country, the Army, seniors, subordinates, and
peers. The confidence and respect that can be
gained from superiors and subordinates is immeasurable. Conversely, the damage resulting
from a lack of loyalty is immeasurable. A
leader's reputation spreads far and wide when
2-5

FM 22-100

in dealing with superiors and subordinates encourages courteous treatment in return.
Usually this practice is not difficult. During
conditions of stress or when delivering criticism to a subordinate, the use of tact becomes
more challenging. To demand courtesy and to
fail to return it indicates lack of respect. The
inexperienced leader sometimes feels politeness
in the military implies softness. Unfortunately,
some men wrongly consider courtesy to a superior as ''brown nosing" or "bootlicking." Usually
a calm, courteous, firm approach will bring
cooperative response without creating ill feeling. Abrupt and forceful orders may be desirable in emergencies because of time saved and
the seriousness of the situation. There are other
situations that require forcefulness of tone and
action, but even then there is no reason for
discourtesy.
UNSELFISHNESS

The unselfish leader is one who avoids providing for his own comfort and personal advancement at the expense of others. The comfort,
pleasure, and recreation of subordinates should
be placed before th at of leaders. It is difficult to
respect a leader who seeks his own comfort over
that of his men or who hoards credit for
achievement made possible by subordinates.
The true leader places himself last in priority
and shares the dangers and hat·dships with his
men.
The fourteen traits alone mean little ·u nless
applied in an effective manner. The principles
of leadership can assist in this application.
The principles have stood the test of time and
have guided the conduct and action of successful leaders of the past. Throughout history,
these have, in varying degrees, influenced the
actions of every successful leader. The fact that
every leader has not always made full use of
each. one of these principles does not make them
any less valid. Although their application may
varv with the situation, a leader who disregards
the~1 risks failure. These guidelines are the
principles of leadership:
1. Know yourself and seek self-improvement.
2. Be technically and tactically proficient.
3. Seek responsibility and take responsibility for your actions.
4. Make sound and timely decisions.
5. Set the example.
6. Know your men and look out for their
welfare.
2-6

7. Keep your men informed.
8. Develop a sense of responsibility in your
subordinates.
9. Insure that the task is understood, supervised, and accomplished.
10. Train your men as a team.
11. Employ your unit in accordance with its
capabilities.
Studies conducted in 1970 by the United States
Army War College and the Continental Army
Command Leadership Board set out to determine, as one of their goals, what type of leadership would be appropriate and effective for the
Army of today as well as for the Army of the
future. One of the major topics examined and
evaluated was the principles of leadership.
Findings of these studies showed dramatically
that the Army's time-honored principles of leadership are considered appropriate today and
for the future by leaders and followers at every
level. The findings of these studies also indicate
that most leadership deficiencies result simply
from failure to apply these principles properly.
The principles of leadership guide all leaders.
This guidance is not new. It is based on a
common-sense approach to accomplishing the

~-~·

6m~Wm1

SOL(Cl'f, WHll!.~ i>-PPROPRIA~ 'fl.le HONllOST

OP\N\OllS OF YOUR c oo-woMFQ<Al<:\E'c; AND
\",UPi:oR l()Rt; A ,; 'fO KO\)) you CAN IMPRO\le

.,toU~ 1.-1:.N >EcRSH \P A61\...\1Y---

mission. If the leader understands the principles and recognizes the necessity for a working
knowledge of human behavior in order to apply

FM 22-100

these principles, he will have the basic tools to
be an effective leader.
Although the principles are still valid, their use
requires reexamination by each leader so that
he may best apply them and because some principles have added significance due to the nature
of today's soldier.
Know Younelf and Seek Self-improvement

Honest self-evaluation to determine his own
strengths and weaknesses is of paramount importance to a leader. Through this process he
can determine his capabilities and limitations.
Additionally, through knowledge of himself,
combined with his knowledge of individual and
group behavior, the leader is able to evaluate
how his actions and behavior affect his subordinates and their behavior. This process also
gives a leader knowledge necessary to further
develop his strengths and strengthen his weaknesses.
Some techniques for applying this principle
are:
a. Analyze yourself objectively to determine
your strong and weak personal qualities. Strive
to overcome the weak ones and further
strengthen those in which you are strong.
b. Solicit, when appropriate, the honest opin-

ions of your contemporaries or superiors as to
how you can improve your leadership ability.
c. Profit by studying the causes for the
success or failure of other leaders, past and
present.

his proficiency to get his men's respect and
confidence. If the leader is deficient in carrying
out his duties, his men will lose confidence in
his ability and in the effectiveness of their unit.
The application of this principle can be enhanced through the use of these techniques:
a. Seek a well-rounded military education by
supplementing attendance at service schools
with independent reading, research, and study.
b. Seek out and foster association with capable leaders. Observe and study their actions.
c. Broaden your knowledge through association with members of other arms and services.
d. Seek opportunities to apply knowledge
through the exercise of command. Good leadership is acquired only through practice.
e. Keep abreast of current military developments.
f. By study and through frequent contact with
subordinates, familiarize yourself with the capabilities and limitations of all elements of your
command.
g. Prepare yourself for the job of leader at the
next higher echelon.
h. Learn and apply sound leadership and
management principles and techniques.
Seek Responsibility and Take Responsibility for Your
Actions
LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES

d. Develop a genuine interest in people; acquire the human touch.

e. Master the art of effective writing and
speaking.

CA~~FULLY EVALUAIS A

~IJBOROINA"le g fAIL..Ul<'E' - -MAKE;: 'URS

f. Cultivate friendly relations with members
of the other arms and services and with civilians.
g. Develop a

philosophy of life and of work.
Have a definite goal and plan to attain it.

;<\\

HI~ 'HOR"ICOMlllGS

ARe NOT DUE' -ro AN Sli?ROR
at< *>UR PAR-i-• ••

~"&1~ ~AL..VAGIO "fH!< MAN WHliN.

~:

fb!::~16LE'--

R'E:~LACE' \41M W\41" N

Ne:Ci0l:~ARY1'

Be Technically and Tactically Proficient.

A leader must demonstrate to his men that he is
well qualified to lead his unit. He must be
competent in combat operations and training
as well as in the technical and administrative
aspects of his duties. Today's soldier expects
answers to his questions. Rank and position
alone will not automatically gain his respect
and confidence. The leader must demonstrate
2-7

FM 22-100

Armed with the knowledge gained from honest
self-evaluation and with the sound technical
and tactical foundation required to perform his
job, the leader must take the initiative to accomplish his unit's mission. By seeking responsibility, he develops himself professionally and
increases his leadership ability. Accepting responsibility for all that his unit does or fails to
do is part of the leader's job. In the absence of
orders, seizing the initiative and taking the
necessary action based on personal judgment
and experience will aid in accomplishment of
the mission. Constant study, training, and
proper planning will lay the groundwork for the
competence necessary for the sound and timely
decisions which form the basis for the leader's
actions.

The following techniques can assist the leader
in the application of this principle:
a. Develop a logical and orderly thought process by constant practice in making objective
estimates of the situation.
b. When time and the situation permit, plan
for every possible event that reasonably can be
foreseen.

These techniques may be used to assist in applying this principle:
a. Learn the duties of your immediate senior
and be prepared to accept his responsibilities.
b. Seek diversified leadership positions that
will give you experience in accepting responsibility.
c. Take every opportunity that offers increased responsibility.
d. Perform every act, large or small, to the
best of your ability. Your reward will be increased opportunity to perform bigger and more
important tasks.
e. Acceptjustcriticism and admit mistakes.
f . Adhere to what you think is right; have the
courage of your convictions.
g. Carefully evaluate a subordinate's failure
before taking action. Make sure his apparent
shortcomings are not due to an error on your
part. Consider the manpower available, salvage
a man if possible, and replace him when necessary.
h. In the absence of orders, seize the initiative
and take the action you believe your senior
would direct if he were present.

f. Make sure your men are familiar with your
policies and plans.

Make Sound and Timely Decisions.

The leader must be able to make a rapid estimate of the situation and arrive at a sound
decision. He must be able to reason under the
most trying conditions and decide quickly what
action is necessary to take advantage of opportunities as they occur. The indecisive leader is
unable to employ his unit well. He also creates
hesitancy, loss of confidence, and confusion
within his unit. When circumstances dictate a
change of plans, prompt reaction builds the
men's confidence in their leader.
2- 8

c. Consider the advice and suggestions of
your subordinates when possible before making
decisions.
d. Announce decisions in time to allow subordinates to make necessary plans.

e. Encourage concurrent estimates and planning in your unit.

g. Consider the effects of your decisions on all
members of your unit.

Set the Example

A leader must be a good example for his men in
integrity, courage, administrative knowledge,
professional competence, personal appearance,
and personal conduct. Moreover, he must set the

FM 22-100

personal and professional standards for his
organization by his performance. If he appears
in an unfavorable light, the mutual confidence
and respect that must exist between himself and
his men may be destroyed.
Some techniques for the application of this
principle are:

a. Be physically fit, well groomed, and correctly dressed.
b. Master your emotions. The leader who is
subject to uncontrolled bursts of anger or to
periods of depression will be less effective as a
leader.

c. Maintain an optimistic outlook. Develop
the will to win by capitalizing on your unit's
capabilities. The more difficult the situation
the more you must display an attitude of calm~
ness and confidence.
d. Conduct yourself so that your personal
habits are not open to censure.

e. Exercise initiative and promote the spirit
of initiative in your subordinates.

f. Be loyal to your seniors and subordinates.
Support the lawful policies of senior officers
whether you personally agree with them or not.
Loyalty is a two-way street.
g. Avoid being partial to any subordinate.

h. Be morally courageous. Establish principles and stand by them.

i. Share danger and hardship with your men
to demonstrate your willingness to assume your
share of the difficulties.
j. By your performance, develop conviction
within your men that you are the best man for
the position you hold.

k. Delegate responsibility and authority and
avoid oversupervision in order to develop leadership among subordinates.

l. Strive for professional competence.
Know Your Men and Look out for Their Welfare

Of equal importance to understanding himself
is the requirement for the leader to know and
understand his men. It is not enough just to
know their names, marital status, hometown,
and other such data. The leader must understand what makes his men tick- their values,
ideals, attitudes. In short, he must know why
they act as they do. The leader must therefore
observe, become personally acquainted with,
and recognize his men as individuals who have

i
different backgrounds and different personalities. Each leader must have a knowledge of
individual and group behavior, because without
such knowledge he cannot understand the''why"
of his men's actions.
Your men's desires to satisfy their own physical
and learned needs is the basis for their behavior. Whether or not they put forth their best
efforts in the performance of duty depends on
the satisfaction of these needs. If you know
your men and provide for their physical needs
(e.g., food, water, shelter) and help them to
satisfy their learned needs (e.g., safety, belonging, esteem, self-fulfillment), you will foster individual productivity and unit proficiency.
When men know you are concerned with their
welfare, they will have an attitude which enables them to accomplish their unit's goals.
By using these techniques, the leader can improve his application of this principle:
a. See the members of your command and let
them see you; be friendly and approachable.
b. Develop a knowledge and understanding of
your subordinates.
c. Concern yourself with the living conditions
of the members of your unit.
d. Help your men get needed support from
available personal services.
2-9

FM 22-100

e. Provide for the spiritual welfare of your
command by supporting religious activities.
f Protect the health of your unit by active
supervision of hygiene and sanitation.
g. Support actively a safety program.
Ii. Determine what your unit's mental attitude is.
i. Administer justice timely, fairly, and impartially.
J. Insure fair and equitable distribution of
rewards.
k. Encourage individual development.
I. Provide sufficient athletic and recreational
facilities and supplies and insure that your
unit is receiving its share of quotas for recreation areas and entertainment benefits.
m. Share the hardships of your men so you
can better understand their reactions.
Keep Your Men Informed.

This will encourage initiative, improve teamwork, and enhance morale. In the past, soldiers
did not expect to be told why they were required
to perform tasks. They accepted the fact that
their leaders deemed it necessary and they performed as required. Today's soldier, however.
has grown up in a society whose widespread
communications media gives him added knowledge and an awareness of what goes on around
him. Moreover, he has been taught in school to
look for the logic in things, to think for himself,
and to question things which do not make sense
to him. Therefore, he expects to be kept informed and, when possible, given the reason for
a particular requirement. Otherwise, he may
become frustrated and will not perform well.
The well-informed soldier has a better attitude
toward the leader and the unit and will therefore be a better soldier. Additionally, subordinate leaders are kept abreast of the situation
and, in your absence, will be able to make
similar decisions based on the same reasoning.
Because he understands the mission and his
role in its accomplishment, he can establish a
personal goal which is related to the organizational goal and adjust his behavior accordingly.
Howe\·er. a leader will not be able to give his
men the reasons for every task because he may
not know them or there may not be time to
explain. If the men understand that their leader
will, when feasible, explain the logic or reasons
behind each requirement. they will be conditioned to react accordingly. If they have respect
and confidence in their leader, soldiers will
accept a number of tasks without knowing why.
In combat, men expect to be told what to do
2-10

without delay for explanations. Another reason
for keeping your men informed is that soldiers
usually fear the unknown. By keeping them
informed, you will reduce fear and rumors.
Some techniques for applying this principle
are:
a. Explain why tasks must be done and how
you propose to do them whenever possible.
b. Assure yourself by frequent inspections
that immediate subordinates are transmitting
necessary information to the men.
c. Be alert to detect the spread of rumors.
Stop rumors by replacing them with the truth.
d. Build morale and esprit de corps by publicizing information concerning successes of
your unit.
e. Keep your unit informed about current
legislation and regulations affecting their pay,
promotion, privileges, and other benefits.
Develop a Sense of Responsibility in Your
Subordinates.

Another way to show your men that you are
interested in their welfare is to give them the
opportunity for professional development. Delegation of authority commensurate with responsibility develops mutual confidence and respect
between the leader and his subordinates. It also
encourages the subordinate to exercise initiative and to give his wholehearted cooperation in
the accomplishment of unit tasks. The leader
who properly delegates authority demonstrates
faith in his subordinates and increases their
desire for greater responsibilities. Failure to
delegate authority indicates a lack of leadership.
Some techniques for applying
are:

thi~

principle

a. Operate through the chain of command.
b. Tell your subordinates what to do, not how
to do it. Hold them responsible for results.
c. Give your men frequent opportunities to
perform cl uties of the next higher echelon.
cl. Be quick to recognize your subordinate's
accomplishments when they demonstrate initiative and resourcefulness.

e. Correct errors in the use of judgment and
initiative in such a way as to encourage the
man. Avoid public criticism or condemnation.
f. Give advice and assistance freely when it is
requested by your subordinates.
g. Let your men know that you will accept
honest errors without recrimination.

FM 22-100

h. Assign your men to positions in accordance with demonstrated or potential ability.
i. Be prompt and fair in backing subordinates. Until convinced otherwise, have faith in
each subordinate.
j. Accept responsibility willingly and insist
that your subordinates live by the same standard.

Insure that the Task
and Accomplished

Is

Understood,

Supervised,

Your men must know what is expected of them
and must be informed of specific task requirements through clear, concise orders. Be sure
that _y ou are understood by communicating
with your subordinates. Men respond quickly to
orders which are clear and concise. Do not
overstate an order by giving too many details.
Subordinates resent oversupervision and harassment. Initiative is developed in men when
they can develop their own techniques for performing tasks. However, troops should understand that their leader is available for advice
and counsel. The leader must also insure that
the orders are properly executed by either
checking personally or by using his chain of
command.
To apply this principle, use these techniques:
a. Be sure the need for an order exists.

b. Use the established chain of command.
c. Through study and practice, develop the
ability to think clearly and issue clear, concise,
positive orders.
d. Encourage subordinates to seek immediate
clarification of any point in your orders or
directives they do not understand.
e. Question your men to determine if there is
any doubt or misunderstanding as to the task to
be accomplished.
f. Supervise the execution of your orders.
g. Make available those resources your men
need to accomplish their mission.
h. Vary your supervisory routine and the
points which you emphasize during inspections.
i. Exercise care and thought in supervision.
Oversu pervision stifles initiative and creates
resentment; undersupervision will not get the
job done.
Train Your Men as a Team

Issuing clear, concise orders and checking on
their execution is only part of being a successful leader. Your men must be well trained if
they are to accomplish any mission. It is the
leader's duty to train the members of his unit so
that they will be tactically and technically pro2-11

FM 22-100

c. Acquaint each element of your unit with the
capabilities and limitations of all other elements, thereby developing mutual trust and
understanding.
cl. Insure that each subordinate leader understands the mechanics of tactical control for his
unit.

e. Base team training on current and probable realistic conditions.

f. Insist that each leader knows the functions
of those with whom he habitually operates.
g. Insure that each subordinate leader knows
and understands his men.

h. Seek opportunities to train with other
units, both combat and service.

i. Explain to each man his responsibilities
and the importance of his role in the effectiveness of the unit.
Employ Your Unit in Accordance With Its Capabilities

ficient, and so that they work as a team. Teamwork is a key to mission accomplishment. It
starts in the smallest unit and carries through
to the largest organization. Each man must
understand that his contribution to the unit's
operations is important and recognized.
Since task accomplishment is based on teamwork, it is evident that the better the teamwork,
the better the tasks will be performed. Furthermore, members of a unit will perform better if
they have a sense of belonging and team spirit.
As in football, if the team is "up" for the game,
they can often defeat a superior team. So it is
with soldiers. If the unit spirit is "up," they can
often accomplish extremely difficult tasks. It's
a two-way street-the unit gives its members a
feeling of accomplishment, security, and recognition; and, in turn, the member gives his best
for the unit.
Some methods of applying th is principle are:
a. Provide the best available facilities for
team training and make maximum use of communications exercises and realistic tactical
problems.
b. Insure that all training is meaningful and
its purpose is clear to all members of the
command.
2-12

Good training prepares a unit for its job. The
leader must know what his unit is trained to do,
as well as its capabilities. He must employ the
unit within its capabilities. Men get satisfaction from performing tasks which are reasonable but challenging, but become dissatisfied if
they are given tasks which they consider too
easy or too difficult to accomplish. The leader
must exercise sound judgment in employing his
unit because each time the unit fails, it causes
his men to lose confidence in him as a leader. In
time, this will lower morale, esprit de corps,
discipline, and proficiency.
To help yourself in the application of this principle:

a. Keep yourself informed as to the relative
operational effectiveness of your command.
b. Be sure that tasks assigned to subordinates
are reasonable. Do not hesitate to demand their
utmost in an emergency.

c. Analyze all assigned tasks. If the means at
your disposal are inadequate, inform your immediate commander and request the necessary
support.
d. Assign tasks equitably among the elements
of your unit.

e. Use the full capabilities of your unit before
requesting assistance.

f. Make decisions in light of sound leadership
and management principles.

fM 22-100
SUMMARY

The traits and principles of leadership are not in themselves the
solution to good leadership. They can, however, help the leader because
they present desirable personal qualities and common-sense guidelines
for use in his relationships with his men.
In addition to the traits and principles of leadership, there are guides
which relate to personal standards of behavior and conduct and which
are of equal importance. These are called ethics. We will discuss ethical
behavior in the next chapter.

2-13

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 3

A military professional is a man who has undergone special preparation and training. He
has the knowledge on which professional actions are based and the ability to apply this
knowledge in a practical way. Furthermore, the
professional leader knows the principles of
leadership and how to apply them to his unit's
advantage. He accepts the service motive of his
work. His profession is a means of earning a
living, but wages do not become the primary
purpose of his work.

Why is professionalism important in the military?

There are two significant reasons why professionalism is important in the military. First,
the military leader is a public servant responsible for defense of the nation. Second, the military organization is often responsible for the
life of its soldiers. In combat, a leader may have
to take risks which endanger the lives of his
men in order to accomplish a mission. Hopefully, however, these risks will be carefully eval3-1

FM 22-100

tudes is discussed later in chapter 6. The
subject of ethics is discussed in this chapter.
Ethics.

"Ethics" is generally used interchangeably with
"morality" and has been described as the science that deals with conduct insofar as this is
considered right or wrong, good or bad. Webster
defines ethics as "the principles of conduct governing an individual, profession, or group."
What is the role of ethics in society?

Based on the definition of ethics, it is obvious
that ethics has something to do with the establishment of guidelines for living. These guidelines are simply basic functional rules that a
society must adopt over a period of time for its
survival. For example, through choice or necessity, any time two or more soldiers interact
to accomplish a task or mission, there must be
an agreement as to how common functions
should be performed. If there were no agreement, the squad, platoon, or company would not
be a cohesive unit, but would consist of individuals and exist at an "every man for himself'
level.
How are ethical standards set?

uated and the planning and execution will
exploit all available resources. If the leader is
careless in carrying out his responsibilities, his
unit may suffer needless casualties.
The military leader is trained to use special
skills, perform an essential service which the
civilian public needs, and follow a code of ethics. Military men have certain common characteristics. Included among these are military
skills, military bearing, self-discipline, and a
cosmopolitan view of world affairs developed
through diverse military assignments.
Because of the nature of the work and its inherent responsibilities, there is a great need for
the development and maintenance of high
standards of conduct among the members of
this profession. This standard or code of
conduct applies to the soldiers' responsibilities
and relationship to the citizenry and the community as well as to their relationships to each
other within the organization.
How to become a professional?

Three attributes of military professionalism
are technical competence, values/attitudes, and
ethical conduct. Each is important to the leader.
Most of the training which men get in the Army
is directed toward improving their technical
competence. The development of values and atti3-2

In any organization, an ethical code which will
best insure the accomplishment of organizational goals is established. The ideology of the
organization partially determines the degree of
participation its members have in the formulation of this code. For example, within the society of the United States, the people have

•.. HA\JE ALWAYf;. BEEN Nr<CE~S:ARY FOR ME'lol 1"0 EIS
A8l-~ 1'0 LIV~ WI~ ONE; AllOTHE~ - • .

FM 22-100

determined their ethical code through government, their religion, and the culture and traditions of the country. An organization within the
overall society, such as the Army, will usually
establish an ethical code within the society's
code. The code which results serves as a guideline for developing the cooperation necessary to
do things that require the efficient interaction
of two or more persons.
The military code of ethics.

The Army does not have a specific code written
as one document. Its code or the "military ethic"
exists in many forms and documents. It is
primarily a continuation of the unwritten ethical practices accepted and advocated by our
society and supported by our legal system. In
its written form it exists in such documents as:
1. The oath of office of allegiance.
2. The Uniform Code of Military Justice.
3. The Code of Conduct.
4. The Code of Ethics for Government Service.

We all find times when such things as personal
ambition, convenience, avarice, and our prejudices conflict with what we know is ethical
behavior. It takes great strength of character
and personal integrity to live by a code of
conduct which is completely ethical. However,
we are fortunate in that most of our leaders do.
Those men are recognized and respected for
their ethical practices. Their followers gain qmfidence in the knowledge that their leaders can
be trusted and depended on to do the right
thing. This enhances the leader's ability to lead
by setting a good example and by engendering
mutual confidence and trust which promotes
teamwork and "esprit."
By practicing the ethics these publications prescribe, the leader gains a sense of ethical
conduct, a certain pride and dignity in himself
and his profession. This code is the starting
point in the leader's dedication to his military
profession. He could be a good leader and still
use means that are ethically wrong in carrying
out his mission. In leadership, intentions are
not enough. The desire and the need to obey
orders cannot replace principle. In other words,
"The end does not alwaysj ustify the means."
What is the relationship of ethical code to actual
behavior?

These guidelines are stated in terms of the ideal

way to do something and as such cannot be
achieved all of the time. In fact, for various
reasons, seldom will the ideal 9e achieved.
Therefore, we have to distinguish between the
ideal and actual behavior of persons. There are
many reasons for failure in the battle to live up
to the ethical code: to work at a job for a big
salary and little personal satisfaction; to tell
everyone that all races are equal, but not permit
your children to play with a boy of a different
colored skin; and to buy a houseful of furniture
now, but not carefully plan monthly payments,
are only a few examples of ethical codes in
conflict. There is a difference between the ideal
behavior as expressed in the ethical code and
the actual behavior that occurs. Although the
ideals of an ethical code are seldom achieved,
leaders must strive to reach those ideals to
insure efficient leadership and ultimately,
perhaps, the survival of their men.
Why should the leader be concerned about ethics?

During the Vietnam conflict, stories were televised over national newscasts and printed in
many of our newspapers which emphasized alleged misconduct and unethical practices of
several high-ranking officers and noncommissioned officers. This bad publicity has caused
many American citizens to wonder whether our
military profession has any ethical standards
or professional codes to guide our condu.ct.
Even though news editors and newscasters
often stress the sensational because that
attracts attention, the fact remains that some
military professionals do face the temptation to
bend or to break the military professional
standards. That old cliche, "The end justifies
the means," could provide every leader with a
ready excuse for doing something questionable,
things which, if leaders really examined them
critically, would not measure up very well
against their professional code.
The leader's concern, however, is not to look
into the obvious mistakes and misconduct of
those who made the headlines. He must learn
the basic principles which will guide him
throughout the military service. He should also
help to maintain the ethical standards of the
military profession through his conduct and
that of the men whom he leads. One unwritten
rule in the military fraternity has been that the
soldiers will emulate the behavior and standards of their leaders. Therefore, the leader must
have definite professional standards and ethics.

3-3

FM 22-100

SUMMARY

Professionalism must be the heart of every military leader. The importance of a full understanding and appreciation of the ethical code,
which is a significant part of the professionalism, is clear when one
considers the role of ethics in establishing the basic frame of reference
for guiding the actions of all members of the Army.

3-4

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 4

A fundamental requirement in military operations is a unified effort based on the coordinated activities of men and units. The
achievement of this unified effort depends directly on the degree of discipline in the unit.
Discipline, A Closer Look.

Over the years the term discipline has acquired
at least three meanings-punishment, obedience, and self-control. The first meaning, punishment, is frequently used when a soldier
violates a policy or regulation. He may be informed that he will be disciplined for his actions. Secondly, discipline seems to suggest

complete and total obedience to the orders of
superiors. The most striking characteristic of
this type of military discipline is the consistent
and unwavering compliance with duty demanded of all troops. Yet, under closer exam ination, the most constructive form of discipline
involves something more than either punishment or unquestioning obedience. This leads to
the third and highest concept of discipline
which involves self-control and a sense of personal responsibility that goes beyond the threat
of punishment or mere obedience. It is this
third concept of discipline with which this
chapter is concerned.
4-1

FM 22-100

discipl in e!!!

Frequently, the root meaning of a word best
explains the word's meaning. In Latin, "to discipline" means "to learn" or "to teach." Army
leaders must learn and teach standards of personal behavior, job performance, courtesy, appearance, and ethical conduct which will
increase the willingness of their men to perform
their jobs efficiently.
Military discipline is similar to the discipline
of a football team in that it satisfies both the
needs of the men and the requirements for an
effective organization. There are two great differences, however, between the discipline required in the Army and that required in any
other organization. First, unlike his civilian
counterpart, if the soldier objects, he cannot

simply quit. Second, in order that an Army may
function even when riddled with casualties, the
actions of its men must be regulated beyond
that required in other organizations.
Discipline is the individual or group attitude
that insures prompt obedience to orders and
initiation of appropriate actions in the absence
of orders. Discipline is an internal attitude that
motivates men to conform to the informal and
formal requirements of their leaders and the
service. It is a state of mind that produces a
readiness for willing and intelligent obedience
and for proper conduct. Discipline insures stability under stress; it is prerequisite for predictable performance.
Self-Discipline, A Critical Factor.

Self-discipline is a voluntary compliance with
directives and regulations of leaders whose requirements are established in the interests of
the organization. Thus, self-discipline is a condition that exists when a man accepts organizational control over his behavior. Self-discipline
then insures that each man can be relied upon
to act in accordance with the needs of his unit
rather than personal ones, particularly in dangerous or stressful situations where personal
needs would otherwise be expected to dominate.
The requirement for self-discipline is not peculiar to any member of the Army or to any level.
Each soldier, regardless of rank or position,
must be a "self-regulating" person who shares a
common concept of proper conduct.
Obviously, not every man is willing to conform
to a prescribed way of behaving for the same
reason. There are two types of behavior which
are disciplined, but for different reasons. In
both types, compliance is obtained. However, in
one type discipline is obtained because the person accepts the necessity for the requirement
and is committed to placing the needs of the
unit before his own needs. Under this condition,
compliance can be expected. In the other type,
the soldier acts because he fears that which may
happen if he fails to act. He does not have any
personal commitment to the accomplishment of
the unit's task or mission. The soldier obeys
merely to escape punishment.

___ A <;OLDIE:R I~ NO\ fK'E'- E' IO PICK
AND CHOO~E'- THE" ORDE:R.S HE: IS GOING

10 OBEY!/

Therefore, the responsibility of all members of
the chain of command is to instill in every man
the principle of acting in the best interest of the
unit.

FM 22-100

The Climate of Discipline.

Discipline is a composite of many things. Before discipline can be attained, a climate for
learning discipline must be created. This climate of discipline is a function of morale,
esprit de corps, and open communication
channels so that the soldier can communicate
upward and receive accurate communications
from above. It is also a function of reasonable
rules and regulations and of the way the soldier
views those rules and regulations. Creating this
climate of discipline in a unit is a time-consuming and continuing task-but a necessary one.
The best way to look at this is to realize that
discipline is a learned attitude. A soldier will
learn to perform well and to behave well if he is
rewarded for his good performance and good
behavior. The reward does not have to be something given to a soldier; it may be just the selfsatisfaction associated with the successful completion of a task. Orders with personally satisfying results for the soldier or obvious success
for the unit reinforce what we have told him. He,
therefore, learns that obedience to orders is
good for both himself and the unit. Conversely,
if he receives orders which are personally dissatisfying over a long period of time, he may
tend to resist those orders, and unit discipline
may be undermined. Even in combat, the
soldier learns to obey if he realizes that obeying
his leader results in the accomplishment of a
task with minimum losses. If, on the other
hand, every time his unit goes into a fight it is
soundly defeated, the soldier loses confidence in
his leaders and he begins to question orders.
Orders must also appear reasonable to the
soldiers. For an order to appear reasonable,
communication and understanding in the unit
must be good. An order will not be viewed as
reasonable if it becomes garbled through transmission. Orders must have an explainable and
logical foundation and the leader must have
gained the trust and confidence of his men
based on his past performance.
There will be certain tasks that cannot be readily explained. This is not to say that the
leader should do away with all requirements
that cannot be clearly and logically explained,
but he must realize that he may have to accept a
measure of dissatisfaction among the soldiers
when he enforces this type order. The leader
alone must decide whether the action is worth
the resultant dissatisfaction or not. If he has
established a leadership climate wherein his
subordinates accept what he does as being logi-

cal and rational; and if the soldier has learned
that satisfying results usually occur, he will
accept requirements which he personally might
not like. We will discuss this in more detail in
chapter 5.

In addition to satisfying needs and being reasonable, developing a climate of discipline requires consistency in enforcing rules and
regulations. Any man who purposely disobeys
an order should be punished. If he is not punished, he assumes that what he did was acceptable. He is likely to disobey again. The results for
the soldier who is not corrected for failing to
salute an officer are often personally satisfying. If he purposely does not salute an officer
and is not corrected his undisciplined behavior
is reinforced and he is likely to repeat it. Organizational standards and rules must be rational, understandable, and consistently
enforced. Even though some regulations and
policies are not obviously rational to subordinates, the leader must see that they are also
consistently enforced. For example, a common
practice in combat is to carry machinegun ammunition in bandolier fashion, draped across
the men's shoulders. Soldiers carry the ammunition this way because it is easier to carry it
this way than in the ammunition boxes and it is
more accessible when needed. If a leader tries to
change this way of carrying machinegun ammunition, he will find that his policy does not
appear reasonable to many of his men. How4-3

FM 22-100

5. Tough, stressful training.
6. Open channels of communication.
7. Reduction of troop frustrations. (Eliminate the little things that irritate and frustrate
soldiers.)
8. Analysis of current rules and policies to
update and eliminate those no longer productive.
9. Fair and just system of rewards and
punishments.

ever, he must insure that they comply with his
policy, at first, for no other reason than that it
is his policy. Additionally and equally important, the leader must convince his men that
by carrying it in boxes the ammunition
remains clean, rounds are not subject to being
knocked out of alinement, the lubrication will
not be wiped off, and the gun can be supplied
with ammunition just as quickly by carrying it
in boxes.
Dissatisfaction among soldiers is often exhibited by hostility toward the leader, the unit, and
the Army. This hostility tends to be a vague,
generalized attitude. When a soldier must carry
out an order which he doesn't like, he is angry,
not only at the leader, but at the Army as a
whole. Therefore, the leader must strive to keep
the level of dissatisfaction to a minimum.
Discipline Development.

Some conditions which foster a climate of discipline are:
1. Clearly stated and enforceable personal
standards.
2. High performance standards.
3. Loyalty to superiors and subordinates.
4. Competitive activities.
4-4

The level of discipline in any unit is, in part,
what the leaders make it. The purpose of regulations is to set a standard of personal conduct
and work performance for the Army. Training
schedules, operational directives, and other
work programs serve the same end. There is
still a broad area in which the influence of the
leaders is brought to bear. Telling subordinates
what to do is only the beginning. The leader
must then see that the job is done. The rules of
conduct may be laid down by the leader, the
other men within the unit, and regulations;
however, the leader alone must stimulate his
men's acceptance of orderly military habits and
set the tone for their performance. In other
words, a training schedule may require that
certain tasks be carried out, but only the leader
can assure that the work will be done with
faithful devotion to duty.
Maintenance of Discipline.

Building discipline in a unit is similar to constructing a large office building. When the
structure is finished, the work is not completed-eontinuous maintenance is needed. So
it is with discipline. Continuous maintenance
must be performed on the elements that make
up the climate of discipline. Continuous observation of these elements helps the leader determine where the maintenance is required.
Developing junior leaders must not be overlooked. Continual training of junior leaders is
essential to insure that they know what discipline is, why it is important, how it is achieved
and maintained, and how the degree of discipline in a unit is determined.
There are numerous indications of the degree of
discipline that a unit or a soldier exhibits.
Level of performance; conduct on and off duty;
standards of dress, bearing, and cleanliness;
and the responsiveness to orders are all indicative of the state of discipline in a unit. These
are outward manifestations of that unit's dis-

FM 22-100

cipline built on esprit, morale, and training.
They portray those qualities of pride, initiative,
self-reliance, self-control, and dependability
that help create an effective unit.
After considering all the building and maintenance aspects of discipline, we still have the
problem of what to do with the man who fails to
respond to our leadership and disregards our
clear and rational orders. When this happens,
the leader should apply fair and impartial punishment. Pampering men or abusing them will
not get them to perform well consistently. A
good leader who understands and cares for his
men, and who has the courage to administer
appropriate justice when necessary can get consistent satisfactory performance. When a man
does not respond to proper leadership, swift,
decisive, appropriate military punishment
should be administered. The soldiers who do

meet the standards expect violators to be punished.
Some leaders use such techniques as makework, extra details, and withholding of privileges without using proper judicial or nonjudicial procedures to punish those who violate the
standards of good discipline. These mental and
physical abuses are often conducted under the
guise of enforcing discipline. Soldiers resent
and object to any infringement on their rights
or dignity. The Army does not advocate permissiveness or leniency toward breaches in discipline. When violations occur, they must be dealt
with promptly.
The Army has the right to expect disciplined
responses from its soldiers, and its soldiers in
turn have the right to expect consideration for
their individuality and self-respect from the
Anny.

SUMMARY

Discipline represents the ultimate product of good leadership in developing group solidarity, esprit, motivation, and skillful performance.
Discipline is the individual or group attitude that insures prompt
obedience to orders and initiation of appropriate actions in the absence
of orders. Discipline is attained by creating a climate of discipline. This
climate of discipline is established by insuring that orders are rational,
that they result in individual and unit satisfaction, and that they are
consistently enforced. Once established, discipline must be maintained,
for without it no unit can be fully effective.

4-S

FM 22-100

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 5

Leaders spend much time on the study of the
technical aspects of their jobs-learning how
their equipment works, what is required to prevent it from malfunctioning, and how it can be
repaired. For the most part, however, they know
or study little about what makes their men
tick-individually or in groups.
Studying human behavior will help the leader
acquire the knowledge required to understand
himself and his men, to learn why men act and
react in certain ways, to identify various types
of behavior, and to learn how to influence the
behavior of subordinates so that their personal
goals complement or reinforce the unit's goals.
In addition, the study of human behavior will
give the leader the knowledge with which to
apply the principles ofleadership effectively.
We will learn, for example, that a negative "I
don't want to cooperate'' attitude displayed by
one of our men may be his reaction to a frustrating experience. As leaders, we may not be
able to tolerate this display of a negative attitude. Knowing the cause of this attitude will tell
us that something is wrong and make us more
understanding. If we know what is wrong, we
may also be able to correct it or have it corrected. By eliminating the cause of the frustration, we may easily turn a negative person into
a productive soldier.

Chapter 6, "Values and Attitudes," deals with
the basis for human behavior. Values are individual standards, ideas, and mental images of
what a person deems to be desirable, right, or
important and result from a man's association
with family, society, schools, and his environment in general. For example, a common value
is that "all men are created equal." Man acquires this value as the result of his
background. On the other hand, attitudes are
mental positions that one assumes or learns for
some reasons. An attitude might be, for example, that "white men are superior to black men"
or vice versa. A man may assume or learn this
mental position because it is a popular one
among those with whom he associates although
it does not agree with his value that all men are
created equal. With an understanding of values
and attitudes, a leader is more able to influence
his men toward the accomplishment of organizational goals.
The lives of men are influenced by a progress ion of needs. Men behave in a way which
satisfies their needs. These may be needs for
physical comfort, safety, social acceptance, ego
gratification, etc., moreover, one man's needs
are basically the same as those of others; they
simply vary in degree of importance to the man.
5-1

FM 22-100

If we as leaders understand a man's needs and

can satisfy them or help him satisfy them, we
can influence his behavior to some degree. This
is discussed in chapter 7.
A leader should understand how to motivate his
men because through motivation, he can get the
self-disciplined responses he needs from them.
Motivation, this need or desire that causes a
person to act, is discussed in chapter 8. A leader
will have difficulty motivating his troops in the
presence of "dissatisfiers"-things that keep
men from being satisfied, such as poor conditions for their families or unsatisfactory working conditions for themselves. Dissatisfiers
tend to divert the attention and efforts of men
from their work, so their leader should identify
and eliminate or reduce dissatisfiers.

5-2

In chapter 9 we discuss the frustrations and
pressures to which we are all exposed at one
time or another. We will consider reactions to
stress, how we can adjust, and how we can
assist our men to adjust to it. Failure to adjust
to stress will keep a person from performing at
his best, thus reducing both his and his unit's
efficiency. If we are to induce men to endeavor
to reach organizational goals, we must understand human behavior as associated with stress
and adjustment.
We must be concerned with group behavior as
well as with individual behavior. Group behavior is an extension of individual behavior.
It is our job, as leaders, to direct the efforts of
the group; to do this, we must understand and
be able to influence individual behavior.

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 6
VALUES AND ATTITUDES

By understanding human behavior, the leader
is better able to analyze, predict, and influence
the behavior of his men. Chapter 3 states that
the military ethic requires that each soldier
accept responsibility for his actions. It also
implies that living by this ethic is worthwhile.

Everyone lives according to what he feels is
worthwhile, or according to his value system. A
man's value system motivates his thinking and
actions.
Each person develops his own value system
through his experience with society. Because of

6-1

FM 22-100

the impact of differing cultures, classes, ethnic
backgrounds, intelligence, family characteristics, and the like, there are many variations in
what people believe and the way they behave. A
mistake leaders often make is to fail to note
these differences. We are quick to say, "I don't
understand why he would do that!" or "l don't
see why he should feel that way!" Value and
attitude differences cause people to see things
differently and to act or react differently.
Values and attitudes are, then, two of the many
factors a leader must consider in understanding human behavior.
This chapter will define values and attitudes,
indicate their source and soundness, and
discuss how a value system serves to shape
attitudes. With a better understanding of values
and attitudes, leaders will be better prepared to
bring about a change in another person's thinking and acting when such a change is necessary. This understanding should also help each
leader to evaluate his own values and attitudes,
as well as help him become aware of the changing nature ofv alues in our American society.

-1

VALUES

What are values?

A value may be defined as an attitude for or
against an event based on the belief that it helps
or harms some person, group, or institution.
Using this definition, a value is a recognizable
outward display of behavior and, as such, is
observable and measurable.
Values have also been called attitudes which
give men the ability to determine what they
believe to be worthwhile or right. Values, like
needs, can have either a direct or indirect effect
on views and beliefs. Additionally, values have
been called learned goals which are developed
beginning at the moment of birth.
What do values do?

Values are the center of man-his character.
They are man's psychological center, a place
which draws together his powers as the core of a
magnet draws the magnet's lines of force together.
A common phrase heard often today is that
society must work out a new set of values.
Others are saying in response, "There's nothing
wrong with the values of the past-such as love,
equality, and brotherhood. We simply need to
bring them back again." Because values are the
basis for our beliefs and attitudes, we may
become emotional regarding certain issues.
These values begin early in life and develop
6-2

throughout adulthood. People develop, process,
evaluate, and place their beliefs or values in an
order of importance that is beneficial to their
daily existence in society. They become building
blocks for each man's value system.
In many people a conflict exists between what
they value mentally and what they value emotionally. There is an inconsistency of external
actions and internal beliefs. An example of this
is in the parent who tells her child to always
stop and look both ways before crossing the
street. The child may notice an inconsistency
between what his mother says and what she does
if she does not stop and look before crossing the
street. The child notices that his mother is
careless. He therefore fails to use caution himself before crossing a street. A second example
is found in personal or social values. A store
owner may say he believes in an issue of the
racial problem. He may proclaim racial equality and brotherhood of man, but, he may refuse
to employ black persons in his store and forbid
his children to attend an integrated school.
When confronted with this discrepancy, he will
reply, "Well, I know what is right a.nd I believe
it, but I have difficulty in practicing my beliefs." Values are influenced by our fears,
hatreds, loves, and friendships. Our attitude

FM 22-100

toward others may be influenced by the doctrine
of brotherly love (religious values); by direct
competition on the labor market (economic
values); by experiences regarding open housing
(political values); by contact with others in
work or social events (social values); and by the
need to find scapegoats on which to blame our
own insecurities and many other factors in
which we are emotionally involved (personal
values).
Beliefs and attitudes often overlap and interact
within a person's value system. Therefore, certain values should not be too simply categorized. To identify and understand a person's
values, it is necessary to understand that person. To be able to relate to social values in a
particular community, a person needs to have
knowledge of the people and their present views,
practices, and society.
How can values be identified?

Because the subject of values is vague, a method
for value identification is necessary. For better
understanding, group values are divided into
the following five categories: personal values,
social values, economic values, and religious
values.
Personal values. Each person has traits that
are representative of his moral character. These
may have an order of importance to him such
as: honesty, responsibility, loyalty, moral courage, and friendliness. Universal values held by
most young people are an interest in others,
intellectual development, and self-satisfaction.
Two common male values are success and prestige. Two female values are an interest in others
and an appreciation of beauty. The values a
person has integrated into his character are
made apparent by his attitudes, beliefs, and
actions.
Social values. These values may include social
responsibility, loving interpersonal relationships, social consciousness, equality, justice,
liberty, freedom, and pride in "our country." A
social value is learned . It involves one's relation ship to society and other people. These
values are learned through an educational and
experimental process, and involve one's relationship to society. For example, many parents
teach their children right from wrong, and what
goals to work toward in their lives. Social
values may be divided into four classes:
Folkways-value s people accept out of
habit.
Mores-morality which governs values.

Institutional ways-practices set up under
law.
Taboos-the emphatic do's and don'ts of a
particular society.
Economic ,·alues. These values are identified
through such mediums as equal employment,
stable economy, balancing of supply and
demand of productive goods, money, private
property, pride of ownership, and taxes. Many
believe that value is a commodity. An automobile, a house, or a TV set has a certain value to
it. Its price or market value is an economic
value. If one of our economic values is affluence, a rise in living standards will help us
realize a goal based on this economic value.
Political values. These include loyalty to
country, concern for national welfare, democ·
racy, and the "American Way," public service,
voting, elections, and civic responsibility.
A person's political views reflect his political
values. In our democracy, the basic freedoms
provided for by the Constitution are held in
high esteem and protected by most citizens.
Freedom of speech, freedom of press, and freedom of religion are only three major freedoms
out of a multitude which United States citizens
enjoy.
As we become adults, political values have new
significant interpretations. If a person seeks
public office, there will be a political platform
which proclaims his intentions. His political
ideas may affect the business or economy of a
particular country, state, or the nation.
Religious values. These values are characterized by reverence for life, human dignity, and
freedom to worship. Religious values are indicated by the expressed belief in a supreme being
or another force which is beyond the comprehension of man. The roots of religious values
are found in oral or written religious doctrine.
For centuries, the Judeo-Christian heritage has
been the foundation of most Americans' religious beliefs and practices. The Bible has
served as the basis for values with emphasis on
the brotherhood of man.
How can values be related to behavior?

A person's behavior is a product of his values.
Values are formed in the following institutions:
home/school
peer group and neighborhood
community
job or employment
church or synagogue

6-3

FM 2.2 -100

Through these institutions, a behavior code is
disseminated and, in a sense, thrust upon all
people in the early stages of their development.
Through these institutions, a person not only
learns what is expected of him, but he builds his
own value system, which will thereafter provide
him with internal rewards or punishments for
his actions.
The total make-up of a man-his characteristics, intelligence, goals, drives, interests, and
adjustment patterns--constitutes the second
general influence on his value system and character development. To some degree, personal
make-up is determined by heredity, but to a
great extent these personal characteristics are
the results of early environmental and social
experiences.

_, i:;o "iOll "fH<~IC ~e. R~SOIJ
-n<w "fOP Dl~L<K !OS ME IS.

(3f'CAU SE M Y D A D ' S A
GE2-~IE' R A L ?

Values and the professional leader

Now that the subject of values has been treated
in specific and general terms, in what ways will
this information assist the professional leader?
First, if the leader has a clear understanding of
values and their relationship to the American
soldier, he can fulfill one essential principle of
leadership. That principle is knowing and understanding his men. Various ways are available to the leader for determining the soldier's
values and attitudes. Some of these are inter·
viewing, counseling, observing, and talking to
the man's immediate supervisor.
Second, often a leader is from a different social
and economic background than his subordinates. He may be older and not in tune with
recent communicative "jargon" or newly estal1lished customs. Knowing the values of his men,
the leader can communicate better, give orders
that appear more rational, and create the climate of discipline which generates the kind of
intangible strength necessary to have a fir:;t
rate unit.
Third, education in values generates a sense of
values which the Army desires. Leaders need to
become skillful in the techniques which can
bring about change in their men so that behavior patterns and attitudes are improved.
However, the leader is primarily concerned with
behavior which is enforced through policies,
directives, and Army regulations. Attitudinal
change among subordinates may take place at a
later time after behavior patterns have be~n
enforced over a period of weeks or months.
ATTITUDES

Behavior is the result of a soldier's reaction t<l a
situation, ,g roup, or leader. That reacti~m
6-4

depends on what the situation is and how the
soldier interprets the situation. If several men
were placed in the same situation, there probably would be various reactions to the situation.
This would occur because each person may see
that situation differently. Such differences are
expressed in attitudes.
Attitudes are a person's feelings toward something or someone and are expressed in likes and
dislikes. The word "attitude" is used rather
loosely as a catch-all term for the whole collection of one's beliefs, opinions, prejudices, and
sentiments, even though the basic meaning of
these terms is different.
Attitudes are learned, or caused, in much the
same way as are values. This learning usually
occurs gradually through many kinds of experiences over a long period of time or as the result
of a particularly fqrceful or emotional experience. Most attitudes are learned from those
experiences which make an impression and
which seem to be important. These experiences
can be favorable or unfavorable, pleasant or
unpleasant, and the resulting attitude ends up
as either positive or negative. When a soldier
comes into the Army and finds his first leader
interested in his needs and welfare, a favorable
attitude toward the military is likely to be the
result. Social environment plays an important
part in shaping attitudes. We may borrow attitudes from others, such as parents, friends,
leaders, or persons of prestige. We may acquire
them from the cultural influences of a particu-

FM 22-100

Jar geographical area such as a farm, small
town, or slum. Furthermore, a person's attitudes may be affected by age, position, and
education.
The soldier's attitL1des, once formed, make up a
frame of reference for his actions and, as such,
will affect what he sees and where he looks.
Attitudes may cause him to do things which do
not seem to be based on any logical reason. We
may use logic to plan what he is going to do, but
attitudes. will determine how he will end up
doing it. For example, he may act toward a peer
or someone who has influence over him in a
completely different way than he would act
toward someone whom he disliked, though both
persons treat him the same way.
ATTITUDE GROUPS

Although attitudes originate from a great variety of sources, most of them can he found in one
of four groups. These four groups show how
various attitudes are interrelated and the functions that they serve in our interaction with
other persons. An understanding of these
groups can assist the leader in changing a poor
attitude to a good one.
The first group includes attitudes which help us
adapt to the situation. We tend to look for those
things in our environment which reward us and
to avoid those things which penalize us. A
soldier usually develops favorable attitudes toward peers, superiors, and assignments which

satisfy his needs, and unfavorable attitudes
toward the same which get in the way of that
satisfaction. If this soldier is denied a muchwanted leave, his attitude may become unfavorable to the leader or to the military in general
unless his need is met in some other satisfying
way.
The second group includes attitudes which help
each of us defend his self-image. How the
soldier protects his self-image from threats
within himself or from threats posed by others
in his environment is known as the ego-defense
mechanism. Many of his personal attitudes
function in the protection of this self-image. In
an effort to live a full life, he looks for everything in his environment which can add something meaningful, but he also directs his
concern to being able to live with himself. For
example, the soldier who always sounds off and
quarrels with fellow soldiers may be doing t his
because he is insecure or has personal
problems. He may be using this type of behavior
to ease some of these tensions. His expressed
anger, quarreling, and other visible hostile actions fprm his ego-defense. Thus, many attitudes serve the purpose of protecting the way he
thinks of himself. He may also use these same
attitudes to defend those persons with whom he
identifius, such as his family, civilian friends,
company, platoon, or squad . When a person
feels his self-image or the group's image threatened, h is attitudes may be openly expressed to
build up his prestige or that of his group.
A third group includes attitudes which express
our value system. Many of his attitudes hide or
camouflage the real person. Some serve the
purposE! of letting subordinates, peers, and superiors know his values.
The final group includes attitudes by which the
soldier categorizes people, events, and experiences. There is a vast world of people, objects,
and ideas that he can see, feel, and think about,
and sef!m real to him. This is the environment
in which he lives. How he interprets that environment, however, is colored by his attitudes.
Thus, when he is faced with events or persons
which do not correspond to previous experiences, he compares this new event or person
with attitudes he already has. This partially
explains the prevalence of prejudice and racially itereotyped attitudes among service people. HEl uses his attitudes as the yardstick for
judgment, such as the mother who watched her
son's unit march by the reviewing stand and
said, "They're all out of step but my Johnny!"
If attitudes are considered to be products of
6-5

FM 22-100

experiences, then experiences in the military
servict! will influence a soldier's attitudes toward i;he unit, the leader, and the Army in
general. The leader's expertise and trustworthiness play a most important part in attitude
change. For example, when the leader's interest
in his men is ,made apparent by an improvement in living quarters, by recognizing each
soldier as an individual, and by alleviating
organizational problems such as overdirection,
overcommitment, malassignment, etc., he is
able to create favorable attitudes.
Just as attitudes are learned through experiences, they can be changed or improved through
other experiences which add new meanings or
facts to the situation. When a unit is given a
mission, attitudes are formed immediately. As
the men learn what is involved in the mission
the reason the mission was given to them, th~
need for the mission, and other related facts
their personal attitudes toward the missio~
may change. However, not all attitudes can be
easil~ changed. Those which involve strong
emotional factors-such as religion, politics,
and race-are difficult to change. Yet, most
attit~~es can be changed to some degree by
prov1dmg new conditions, new experiences and
new information.
'
GOOD ATIITUDES

Some methods a leader can use in trying to
create better attitudes include:
Providing information. Often an attitude is
based on a misconception, and supplying the correct facts may result in a changed attitude. The
leader may be able to present some of the facts
involved in a certain situation in his unit about
which his soldiers have formed poor attitudes.
Showing concern. A simple act of kindness or

an indication that the leader cares aoouthis men
can often change a poor attitude to a better one.
Listening to a soldier who is bitter or hostile
permits him to blow off steam.
Changing a person's status. Giving a soldier a
new job or position can cause him to identify
with new roles and frames of reference. This
gives him a new slant on the situation. In other
words, attitudes can be changed at times by
merely changing the situation.
Allowing discussion. Leader-subordinate discussions may help to correct negative attitudes
because communicating encourages the soldier
to express his feelings and problems. This can
be one of the best methods used to improve
attitudes. The art of communicating depends a
great deal on listening. When the leader is alert,
attentive, and demonstrates a sincere interest
and willingness to understand not only what is
said, but what is not said, he goes a long way
toward building bridges of understanding.
A man enters military service with a built-in set
of attitudes toward the Army. His attitudes
were most likely influenced through mass
media and by feedback from relatives, friends,
or acquaintances who were in the service. The
soldier's reaction to these influences, whether
good or bad, forms the basis of what he expects
from the service. As he experiences new situations in his service career and begins to feel
involved in these situations through his training and association with other men, his previously formed attitudes will either be
strengthened and retained or weakened and
replaced. By talking to soldiers about their
interests and desires, the leader will uncover
some of their attitudes and the underlying
causes for them. The leader can then set about
correcting poor attitudes within his men.

SUMMARY

When the leader understands the development and role of values and
attitudes he is in a more favorable position to deal with the behavioral
problems of his men. When he acknowledges that his men will not
always act and react as he does, or that they will not understand things
or feel about them as he does, the leader can approach new situations
and his men more intelligently and helpfully.
Values and attitudes are learned. When a leader establishes mutual
understanding among his men and himself, he has helped create favorable soldier attitude s toward suitable values.

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 7

For years, scholars have studied human behavior and have offered hundreds of explanations of human nature and instinct and how
they affect :men's actions. All behaviorists agree
that there are certain factors, elements, or
needs which cause men to behave in certain
ways and do certain things. The most basic of
these factors are the human needs.
Human needs are those which are necessary for
a person's existence and for his mental and
emotional stability. Those human needs required for existence are called physical needs-food, water, shelter, clothing, and elimination of
body waste. Those required for mental and emo•A. H. Maslow, Motivation and Personality (New York:
Harper, 1964)

tional stability are learned needs-safety, social acceptance, esteem, and self-fulfillment.
Human needs are the same for all men, but they
vary in importance or degree from person to
person.
RELATIONSHIPS OF NEEDS

Understanding the definitions of physical and
learned needs, we can now examine the relationship between needs. The attempt to classify
human needs, which is probably the easiest to
understand is the one developed by Abraham H.
Maslow.* In Maslow's theory, human needs develop from lower to higher needs, with the lower
needs having to be satisfied before the higher
needs can develop. For example, a man who has
7-1

FM 22-100

not had water for a long period of time will only
be interested in satisfying his thirst. The need
for water is a basic physical need.
Physical needs do not usually cause either the

7-2

leader or the follower any problem except under
the most trying circumstances, such as during
prolonged combat or in a natural disaster.
When they are not satisfied, the man turns his
attention from task and mission accomplishment to his own personal well-being.
Above the physical needs are the learned needs.
These are based on and developed through
men's relationships with each other and society
in general. The safety needs are the most basic
of the learned needs and include the desire for
security and for law and order. If, for example,
a man is concerned with the protection of his
personal possessions because barracks thievery
is common within his unit, he will not give full
attention to his duties. Instead, he will be thinking of the safety of his belongings. The leader
must provide the required security which frees
the soldier from worry so that he can attend to
his military duties.
The needs for belonging and for social acceptance rest upon the man's desire to be an accepted member of his unit and to have good
personal relationships with its members. Almost every leader has been approached by a
soldier who has complained of not fitting into
his squad or platoon or who cannot get along

FM 22-100

and by treating each of them as important
contributing members of the unit, the leader
helps satisfy the self-esteem needs of his troops.
The highest need in Maslow's progression is
that of self-fulfillment or the achievement of full
potential. Because needs are progressive, satisfying this final need is based on at least partial
satisfaction of the needs which precede it. Many
privates desire to become sergeants major, and
many lieutenants desire to become generals, but
these desires are realized in only a few cases.
Although the percentage of those who reach selffulfillment is small, intermediate promotion
goals can be attained, and partial satisfaction
achieved.

with the other members of his unit. The problem
of "not belonging" concerns this soldier so that
he can think of little else. He is not a productive
soldier, so some action must be taken to satisfy
his need to belong.
Esteem follows in the progression and, next to
the physical needs, is the one most easily satisfied by the leader. The esteem needs are those
which stem from the person's desire for recognition, respect, and appreciation. The leader can
directly recognize his subordinates for their
performance and show his appreciation by intangible rewards such as a simple "Well done"
or a pat on the back. He can also offer tangible
rewards in the form of time off; recommendations for awards, decorations, and promotions;
and favorable efficiency reports. In the same
way, he can recognize poor performance by a
verbal or written reprimand or a recommendation for administrative or judicial punishment.
Today's soldier for the most part is seeking
individuality-he is "people-oriented" more
than "system-oriented," and he desires distinction. He wants logical rules and regulations
with which to govern himself, hard but meaningful work, and a sense of belonging to the
group. By respecting each of his men for what
they are, by recognizing them as individuals,

The attainment of these intermediate goals is
conducive to good behavior.
What about other men whose ideas of self-fulfillment do not include moving to the top of the
ladder of success in the Army or some other
7-3

FM 22-100

organization? Some men just want to find their
true selves, to enjoy life, to do .their jobs arid
avoid trouble. If this is "their thing," we must
not criticize their ideas and beliefs because
their ideas differ from ours. For example, take
a case in which we have only one unit award for
soldier of the month and two men are equally
qualified for the award after the completion of
the normal competition. If we find that one man
plans to get out of the Army as soo.n as his
enlistment is up and that the other plans to
reenlist, we must not allow this knowledge to
influence our decision. We must dig deeper to
determine who should get the award. If our
investigation favors the man who is not making
the Army a career then he should get the award.

needs, its ll,leµibers will seek individua.l · satisfaction instead of group fila.tisfaction.
A leader must provide purpose and goals for the
group. By evaluating his resources to see if they
are adequate to reach a goal and by selecting
the best course of action,. the' leader provides
purpose and goals.for the group. He must then,
time permitting, explain the logic and reasoning behind his decision so that each man understands his impc>ttance to the unit> The leader
must then demonstrate his enthusiasm for the
task and pr6y;ide d'.ii'e'q.tion . and · assistance in
accomplishing, th~:aoat. T·his dir.ection should
include informati>Qp on the required standards
of performance, ·

Americans live. i.n a llighly competitive society.
Because of thi~, ~f).nfjoin or at least identify
In addition to individual human needs, there
with groups th~
i~I;·t}\e need to be competiare group nor1ffis which are established to meet
tive. For exam
ej(ideri~ify. with a sports
the needs of the
·
'\ team ofon.e kin
tber. W1,
following the
indiv.idual ne.ed ·
)success Q1 fai
their ;t: . . t~·;they often
ti on of the need
\become peJifson
d emio.tionally involved.
This collectiOn of"nee
ay req
s
'.By accepting t
's comp:e~it.fon as their
of the group to change or adjust their needs to
own, they are a · .. ,..... ··~ sat,isfy' t'l>:~1r JA;eed for
fit the group's norm.
competition. Manypiotaite al&o belon,g to bowling
leagues or softball leagues, meet regularly for
In using the word/'~oup" we refer to organized
playing cards, or engage in some other type of
groups having common goals and established
competition where they are directly involved.
leadership. They may. be formal such as a fire
From theae group associations, loyalties, teamteam, squad~ or pllo/toon; o~ informal such as a
work, and leaders emerge. In a military organibowling or softball teatt\.; JJnorganized groups,
zation, however, the leaders are already
on the other hand, seldom have. common goals
identified. The designated leader must realize
or established 1eadershili,p.
··
that although he is recognized as the head of the
gr~u:p'becau~.e .?fl11s.ra~~ an~ p()siti?n, he will
In orgailized grou~., t~w,onal 1'elationships
~tlin fa~~'e·iftie aecept'edl~.aderuntil .he·eatns
between the.'
· hf.ls~.
i&p confor~ to
mt~"iie•specti'-aWd·:~tfQiifiaence o'f. th'e group by
certain s~i;,'4
· p or; in the
stttl'B~'rir& ·
~dk
· · ··
'{
case . of th.}m
·ifjhd'';··~~··.~~:·.-r f~o~·i· r~'tt<···.xt?1:t:h~t,;.
ards. For exam ; the
· · · ·'Ii.at
~~EP.~1W.f~G~JQJ'1'JC<
wants .to eam a h . hrf!.ting . ·~it .. .
, 'finTlarelead.e1''$'.'tll\\i~fie1s these needs in part by
ing Test (ATT}•wiU li~raf4w force the '1n~ilrs
insuring·tliat•teifl.mwork and loyalty to the
of the platoon toijotheir0be.$t (;m thcttest. Each
group<are estal!)~!fsa@d and maintained. He inman will work hard in <:>:r~er to maintain his.
acceptance by the other members of the. platoon.
sures that intt~Vi!d'tiiil.'t and group needs are satIn other words, they don't want to "let their
isfied by ·estb.bti!WWitig goals, missions, or tasks
buddies down'' or lose their respect. Each wants
f0r i:ndivitlu&ls Wd groups to reach which lead
to do his part to attain the group goal. This is
to mission· ••eeE>mplishment. For example, the
due to the need for social acceptance and status
unit mission may be to paintthe barrac~. The
within the group. This force is strongest in the
leader may estAblish some ty}>e of competition
leaders .because they need the respect of their
or reward fo'f the platoon that does the best job.
men for their own self-esteem .. The troops will
Thus, the individual ·and group needs of imhave c0nfidence and faith ih thefr leaders as
proving their liVing conditions (social rieeds),
long as group needs and ~xpectations are met.
competing and beihg recognized (ego needs),
On the·.other pan"if., if the leaders do not live up
and accompliEihitig meaningful work (self-fulfillmen t) are met. The method of satisfying
to group. ~xpectations and .satisfy >the gr0up's
GROUP NEEDS

~'.,, 1 f<o ,

, ',

~- -,

'

>

•4

H11~\

:- f

7-4

~~·,

FM 22-100

needs by establishing goals is a part of motivation. We will discuss the subject of motivation

in the next chapter and answer the question,
"How do we motivate our men?"

SUMMARY

For a soldier to be a contributing member of the Army, his physical
needs must be satisfied. He must be put in an environment in which he
can satisfy his learned needs. Because men's needs are progressive,
they must be at least partially satisfied at each level before a higher
level can be reached. If a leader expects good performance from his
troops, he must strive to satisfy or assist in the satisfaction of their
individual needs.
Equally important are group needs, which are the collective needs of all
members of the unit. The collective needs are translated into a common
group norm to which members of the group must conform. As is the case
with individuals, groups require their leaders to eatablish goals and
purpose for their efforts in order to satisfy the group's heeds.

7-5

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 8

FORMAL AND INFORMAL CONTRACT

The task of motivating subordinates is squarely
on the leader's shoulders. His first task in motivating his men is to recognize the existence of
both the formal and informal contract between
the soldier and the Army and to insure that the
terms of these contracts are met. The formal
contract is the military obligation a man incurs
when he is sworn into military service. The
informal contract consists of those implied obligations and responsibilities which the organization and the soldier have to each other. The
informal contract is based on individual and
organizational expectations and on the necessity for each to satisfy the other. The leader

plays an important role as the organization's
representative in insuring that the terms of the
informal contract are fulfilled by both parties.
Units have standards in such things as job
proficiency, discipline, participation as a team
member, and personal conduct-to name a few.
In the same way, the soldier has certain expectations which must be met by his unit. The unit
must reasonably satisfy his "physical" needs
for food, water, shelter, etc. It must also provide
a climate for the satisfaction of his "learned"
needs for security, law, and order; his "belonging" needs of family, work, and social groups;
and his "self-satisfaction" need for self-fulfillment. By directly satisfying the soldier's physi8-1

FM 22-100

cal needs and giving him the opportunity to
satisfy his learned needs, the unit meets the
basic terms of the informal contract it has with
the soldier. The opportunity is now present to
motivate him to accomplish the organizational
goals.

es!J!lt>Q1~~0D~~~q

In short, under the terms of the informal
contract, both the organization and the soldier
depend on each other for satisfaction of their
expectations, and each must meet the terms of
the contract according to what the other expects.
If both parties participate fairly in meeting the
contract's terms, then a satisfactory relationship will exist between the two, and the organizational mission can be accomplished while the
soldier's needs are also satisfied.
The leader is responsible for accomplishing the
missions of the Army and is vitally concerned
that the Army's expectations are, met. Qn the
other hand, he must see to it that the soldier's
expectations are met. The lead~r is, t}1j\tefore,
the executor of the itiformal contract ·and must
see that each party meets the expectations of the
other.

/ ...........

EGO/

8-2

WORK

MOTIVATION

Needs form the basis for men's actions. Needs
motivate men to behave in certain ways and to

PHYSICAL

HCOIMITIOll
ltHPOllllllLITY

-----·--- (

MOTIVATION AND NEEDS

SAFETY

~

Z•RO MrVA~ION

ITllL'

)------~

ICAL.I

do certain things. So any attempt to motivate
must be based on an understanding of human
needs and must be directed at satisfying these
needs.
Motivation is related to what people do in performing their jobs and is associated with the
higher needs as described in Maslow's progression of needs in chapter 7. The degree to which a
person desires to satisfy these needs usually
determines how productive and creative he will
be on .. the job. At the lower end of Maslow's
progression are those factors which are related
to the job environment. Failure to provide for
these needs creates dissatisfaction .. If the job
environment is dissatisfying, the soldier will be
concerne~ _with his own well-being to the point
of excluding all. activities which do not lead to
this sati,Sfaction. Thus, his performance will be
directe~ towards satisfying his physical needs,
and unit needs will not be satisfied.
It is interesting to note, however, that elimination of dissatisfiers does not motivate subordinates. If a motivation scale is indicated on a
progressive ladder of motivators and dissatisfiers, the elimination of the dissatisfiers does
·not by itself cause motivation, but simply
causes a ne.utral situation in which motivation
cnn occur. The satisfaction of needs on the

FM 22-100

positive side of the scale motivates subordi-·
nates, while failure to satisfy these needs
results in dissatisfaction. For example, the
soldier who consistently performs well but who
is not recognized for his work may become
dissatisfied.
Although it may appear that the leader faces an
impossible task in motivating his subordinates
because he is surrounded by potential dissatisfiers, this is not the case. In our society: the
physical an.d safety nee.ds are usually" easy to
satisfy and, except in extreme circumstances,
our menare notconcernedwith.thesetwo.needs
but are more interested in sat.isfyjpgiheir
higherneeds. The social needs a:re~•1sO'l'~arti~lly
satisfied to some degree m,~,ly:·l>e,~:aqs·e, by
being in the Army, the soll!l~eir'.t~~·~·~a:rt of a
formal group.As a member of·~l\e f~~lor,gah­
izati.on and of several informal l'.roups, the
soldier is socially motivated to meet both the
formal and informal established' .standards.
These group standards iho~the soldi~th9w to
behave in various. situation·~ and 1;1{ · him
in times of stress.
· · ··
· Motivation is a com
minep.
the inte
baself w.those ne
and ~b
combina
need~·. Biecause th
tion, pstsonal nee
are always present,
one has some type •·....•...•..··.· · ·.· vati
thing. For example, eftfy~ne ne ....•.......· ·.. ;and is
motivated to eat. Rati()tial people, '\V}1,,en their
lives are threatened, ,attempt t~ reduce the
threat; and most people des\J:e socfal·or group
acceptance and are motivAtEld to achieve that
end.

ti.

0

a'

MOTIVATING PERFORMANCE

Because everyone has motives, the question for
a leader is not, "How can people be mot.ivated?"
but rather, "How can the motives of his ·soldiers
be channeled towards attaining the organizational objectives?" To answer this question,
consider these factors ·which influence: a
soldier's motivation to perform well:
• His feeling that he cansucceedifhe tries. ,,.
• His feelfng tpat he will..be re~ognJzed for
his gc;>od work, either tangibly qr intangibly.'
· • His ;Value of that rec.ogn.~tion.
• His· estimate of the p:.rr0ba.btllity that he
will ,be p.unished if he does no.ttry«•.. \
MOTIVATION TO TRY

Experience shows th~t a man whf have litti~

motivation to try something he thinks he cannot
do. The leader must know his men's capabilities
and establish challenging attainable goals
within these capabilities. He can build the
men's confidence in himself by offering support,
encouragement, and assistance and by indicating that a man will not be punished if he gives
his best effort and fails. This is important
because on difficult tasks, men encouraged to
keep trying may ultimately succeed; without
encouragement, they may simply quit.
EXPECTATION
fOR GOOD WORK
.
- OF RECOGNITION
.

When a man is. convinced that his chances of
success are good enough to warrant the effort to
try, his belief that success will help him achieve
his own personal goals or needs becomes important. If .he is not convinced that good performance is the best way to satisfy these needs,
his motivation will be low and he will have little
or no interest in doing his best.
Creating assurance that good performance will
be rewarded is bas~d onthree things. First, the
leader must have a consistent record of checking. and evaluating .perfo;rmance. Second, he
lliu$t have e.n equally eonsfstent record of using
,a\e"'rewartt§ and'putlish:rifimts 'at his disposal in
't~spectto hpprovitig hiS men's performance. A
~toi1·-~~·:i4'll>~~J),_,;l~~l~~r.~1tif.~n··a:,ny other
·in~mh~flJi;i;,~n%·!\:l:ni~f~llil\IJ:l~nb~hthe,first :man
C(}~~i4'~:t;(:)i£ ~or: p)'~yi1~~s ,~ti4 ~ii<?~otiO\fl.'iJ while
t:.he,<;~p~ble ma11. ~po: doe•.;n,ot do good. ~ork
shc;>uld neveF be allowed·· to. escape the, consequep.ce s of his. pc;>or performance.: Finally,
although tangible rewards are most important
to many soldiers, there are others who feel that
completion of the task itself is sufficient reward. In other words, the unit and individual
goals are rein~orcing and complementary.
Motivation cannot always be achieved by taking
such actions ·as offering tangible rewa:fds, increasing work requirements,. changing, the man
to a similar job . (such as changh~g his,job from
driving ~n armored per~on11el carrier to driving a 5-ton truck), or asking h1m what actfon
can be taken tc;> improve.'his job. Motivatic;>n can,
howeve,r, :be, r~alized by chan~ng the tn~th.od of
achieving' unit goals so that they satisfy the
11eeds of.ihe troc;>ps as well as contribute to
mis!!Jion. apCO!JlJ1ljshn:ent~ U1;1ually, if a .man is
allowed to develop his own method of reaching a
unit gq~.l, he will be· mo:r:e m:oti.vated to do· .i:so
because' he,can chooseJl 'course of action which
will en a bl~ hhll\ .to, satisfy ,his own g.Qals
wen.
Additiqhaily~: by 'in,t'lu.enc;tng a :man's,choice o(
µ~rs<;mal goals, you ~81¥ i11 tum, influ;ence the
alinement of his personal g9als with. unit goals.

.as

FM 22-100

The best technique to use to aline personal and
unit goals and to provide personal-satisfaction
motivation is to give the soldier increased authority and responsibility. This technique can
be used at any level from the lowest ranking
enlisted man to the highest ranking officer. For
example, at the lowest level, guidance for the
accomplishment of routine tasks may often be
given along with specific standards of accomplishment to be met. This will give a man the
opportunity to use his own ability and initiative to perform tasks so as to meet the leader's
standards. This technique can give the soldier
the opportunity to satisfy his own needs while
accomplishing unit goals. The same process of
using broad guidelines can be used in giving
more responsibility and authority to junior
leaders. In other words, you should assign a
task and hold the leader responsible for its
accomplishment. Give junior leaders the authority to grant certain rewards, such as time
off, to their subordinates with the understanding that mission accomplishment cannot be sacrificed. The leader's imagination, within the
limits of regulations and policies, can be used
freely in arriving at ways in which increased
authority and responsibility can be given to
subordinates.
The benefits of this technique are far-reaching.
In addition to increasing motivation, this technique gives men the opportunity to grow professionally because their abilities are challenged.
The leader is also able to free himself from
many tasks which he previously performed himself and thereby devote more attention to his
other leadership functions. For example, if the
leader can free himself from having to personally supervise a particular task, he can step
back and take a more objective view of his unit's
performance. He can then evaluate his unit's
performance in order to improve it.
THE VALUE OF RECOGNITION FOR GOOD WORK

A person's desire for recognition is directly
related to the third factor affecting motivation
to work-the value a man places on the recognition he will get for successfully completing assigned tasks. What can the leader provide that
will be of value to the subordinates? Should
every task be rewarded? It is difficult to answer
these questions because a soldier does many
routine tasks during a day which do not merit a
tangible reward, but which must be done well.
Further, giving tangible rewards for all good
performances, especially routine tasks, would
reduce the value of rewards as a motivating
factor. Finally, even if this would not lower the

8-4

value of rewards, there are not enough tangible
rewards available to u1;1e this way.
Fortunately, there are other rewards, intangible
in nature, which are available to the leader. The
best example of an intangible reward is the
praise given a man for successfully compl~ting
a task. Praise tells the soldier that he is a
valued member of the unit. While a man may
work for tangible rewards, one of his chief goals
is to feel that he is important and worth something to the unit. In contrast, if the leader never
compliments a soldier for a job well done, it is
easy for the man to believe either that he never
does good work, or that his leader is not interested in good work. Either of these beliefs can
destroy a man's motivation.

FM 22-100

that should guide decisions on what action is
appropriate for a given performance.
When performance is good, the leader's job is a
simple one. If an attempt is made to get special
recognition for the unit when the men have put
forth special effort, and if good work is always
recognized, motivation in the unit will increase.
Far more complex is the problem of correcting
poor performance.

PROBABILITY OF PUNISHMENT

In the Army, assigned tasks must be done well,
and each leader's unit must perform weU,i.Each
man must do his share of the total job, or
several problems will result. First, the unit's
effort will be weakened. Second, others in the
unit will have to do more than their share. They
will not continue to do more, however, if corrective action is not taken against the shirker.
They will feel that there is no reason for them to
do more than their share and their performance
will decline to the level of the shirker. Third, the
shirker himself will develop a habit of shirking.
The longer he gets away with this, the harder it
will be for the leader to change him. Prompt and
firm punishment at the first occurrence may
salvage the man and eventually aid in making
him a good soldier. If punishment fails and the
man continues his poor performance, more severe punishment will be required. Moving the
man to another unit or a different job may also
help remotivate him. If nothing works, as a
final step he. should be eliminated from the
service.
EVALUATING PERFORMANCE

From these points and others raised in this
chapter, it is clear that one of the most demanding and complex problems of leadership is the
action the leader must take after evaluating his
men's performance. There are several factors

Performance of duty is, in general, the product
of three interdependent factors: ability, motivation, and the work method. If ability is high but
motivation is low, performance will be poor.
Performance will also be poor if the opposite is
true, with ability low and motivation high.
Therefore, it is often difficult to determine
whether poor performance is the result of low
ability or low motivation. Yet, the determination must be made, since the nature of the
leader's action will be different depending on
which he decides is the case. If the poor performance is the result of a lack of ability, the
proper action is to identify and correct the
ability failure. This can normally be done
through extra training. If the failure is attributed to inadequate motivation, however, the key
is to take action to increase the motivation level
of the man. It is not easy to identify the reason
for a failure. For example, a failure that appears to be <1aUsed by a lack of ability may be
indirectly the result of an earlier lack of motivation to learn while the soldier was being
trained. The leader must determine which is the
cause for failure. A review of the man's performance is a he~p, but is not totally reliable.
For example, a new man may "goof off'' from
the day he joins the unit, and thus always
appear as a poor performer. Or, a man with a
good past record may suddenly start fouling up
because of pressing personal problems he
cannot solve. There are two errors to avoid. One
is to punish when the failure is due to inadequate ability, and the second is to give additional training when the failure is due to a lack
of motivation.
Of these two errors, the first, punishment for a
lack of ability, is very serious. There are at
least three reasons for this. First, if a man
gives his best, fails, and then is punished, he
will probably never again try that hard. If he is
going to be punished for failing, he might as
well be punished for not trying. Second, if he
fails because of a lack of ability, his failure is
not entirely his fault. It is primarily the
leader's fault for assigning him a task beyond
the limits of his ability. So, if a man gives his
best and is punished for failing, his motivation
8-5

FM 22-100

fRUST,RATION/
BEHAVIOR PATTERN

ule to be altered, a degree of frustration results.
For example, the mess truck is 30 minutes late
arriving at a training site. T~1is may cause the
training schedule to be altered, which in turn

LEVEL OF
ASPIRATION

LEVEL OF
ACHIEVl:MENT

9-2

may cause the troops and the instructors to
experience minor frustrations. Frustration is
likely to be more severe when an obstacle blocks
someone from attaining his objective. A blocking obstacle may be a physical or mental condition beyond the control of the man concerned. It
may be a self-imposed or psychological obstacle
such as a lack of self-confidence which prevents
a man from reaching a goal. When the level of
achievement is lower than the level of aspiration, frustration results. For example, a staff
sergeant (E6) who is an outstanding NCO is
told that he cannot be promoted to sergeant first
class (E7) because he does not have a high
school education.
Frustration by conflict occurs when someone
desires two or more goals, but the satisfying of
one causes the denial of the other. Of course,
these goals must be of fairly equal importance.
For example, if a soldier is confronted with the
ohoice between a steak dinner or promotion,
there would probably be no conflict. However, if
he has not eaten for 3 days and the steak dinner
is the only food available, a conflict might exist.
Another example of this type of conflict would
be deciding between two good jobs-one which
has a supervisor you like, or one that is particularly beneficial to your career.

FM 22-100

Conflict also occurs when a person must choose
between two unpleasant goals. An example of
this type conflict is a choice between two equally
undesirable tours overseas.
Conflict often occurs when a goal involves both
pleasant and unpleasant features. For example,
a noncommissioned officer may desire to work
in the brigade tactical operations center, but in
so doing would have to work for someone he
dislikes.

fl0

Most situations involve a complex combination
of desirable and undesirable factors, as exemplified in the following hypothetical case.
LT Smith is asked to work on a project which
involves an extended trip away from his home
station. He realizes that this is a vote of confidence from superiors, an opportunity to learn
and to get away from the routine of his job, and
an opportunity to observe the actions of high
ranking and influential leaders. However, he
has doubts of his ability to do the job, and being
away from home could cause personal hardship
and financial problems. LT Smith's problem is
not easy to solve, because either choice results
in conflict.

l'l
I,
11

11

IdI

ii

REACTIONS TO FRUSTRATION

Whatever the cause, frustrating events stimulate some type of behavior. The resulting behavior varies with the person and the situation,
and it can cover a wide range of reactions.
Behaviors induced by frustration can involve
either good or bad reactions. Good reactions are
those which occur because of increased drive
and can cause a man to overcome the obstacle
which is preventing him from reaching his original goal. Good reactions to frustration are not
uncommon. In fact, many perform at their best
when subject to some minor form of frustration.
The saying "the more I have to do, the more I
get done" is a good reaction to what might
otherwise be a situation where, because of the
amount of work to be done, a man could react
poorly. Because good reactions do not require
leader attention or action they are seldom of
concern ,to the leader. On the other hand, frustratiofl can produce various bad reactions such
as agbession, rationalization,, regression, fixation{ resignation, and negativism which are of
great concern to the leader.

r,emarks, and other forms of unacceptable behavior characterize aggression.
Another reaction of frustration is misdirected
hostility, often called "scapegoating." A person
may be in a position where he cannot attack the
cause of his frustration directly. He often takes
out such frustration on another person or
object having nothing to do with the original
cause of his frustration. For example, Sergeant
Jones, who is experiencing a great deal of frustration he believes is caused by his platoon

Aggression is one of the most likely reactions to
frustration; however, other responses to frustration inay occur first. Hostility, striking out,
smashing objects, vicious gossip, snide
9-3

/'I'

1;1:1

FM 22-100

leader, goes home and vents his aggression on
his wife. All too often people direct their hostility toward their peer$ or subordinates who, in
turn, may vent their aggression on their unit by
not performing a task to the best of their ability.
Rationalization is a behavioral reaction in
which the frustrated person blames someone
else for his inability to achieve some goal or
talks himself out of the desirability of a goal.
For example, a man disappointed at not having
been promoted to sergeant first class may rationalize; "I did not want the added responsibility of being promoted to E7, anyway."
Frequently, however, the reaction to this frustration is to blame a superior for one's inability
to attain a desirable goal.
Regressive reaction is simply the failure to act
one's age. A person who is unable to deal constructively with reality and who retreats to the
behavior of an earlier age that seems more
satisfying is showing regression. A person who,
in a frustrating situation, puts on a temper
tantrum or pouts is reverting to his formative
years when such behavior worked; in other
words, he got his way by a display of temper as
a child and reverts to this behavior in an effort
to have his way as a nian. As in other reactions
to frustration, the number of frustration-producing elements influences the degree of regression.
Fixation is another severe reaction to frustration. It is characterized by compulsive, stereotyped, repetitive behavior. A person may exhibit
the same behavior pattern over and over again
with no attempt to adjust to the situation. An
example of fixation is the mechanic who per9-4

sists in trying to fit a bolt into place, even
though it is the wrong size.
Resignation, or apathy, is a reaction characterized by loss of hope, escape from reality, withdrawal, and retreat from the source of
frustration. The person becomes apathetic and
resigned to failure. For example, a man, in an
attempt to escape from the rigors of Army life,
may withdraw into himself and go absent
without leave.
Negativism is the most common reaction to
frustration. In this behavioral reaction, the person adopts a negative resistive attitude toward
the situation. For example, Lieutenant Smith
presented his plan for the coming movement to
the c'ompany commander, who found fault with
it. Lieutenant Smith then became frustrated
and 'displayed a defensive, negative attitude
toward alt i:e~onunendations that the company
commander' made 'for improving the plan.
The symptoms,of: frustration described hereaggr!i!ssion, .rationalization, regression, fixation, resignation, an<l negativism-are conditions for which the leader should be alert, so
that he can take remedial action.
COPING WITH FRUSTRATION

There is no clearly defined ladder of frustrated
behavior.in which a person proceeds, first being
aggressive then regressive, etc. Further, the
ability of people to cope with or tolerate frustration ·varies. What may be a stressful situation
for one person, may be stimulating for another,
and what may induce frustration in a man at
one time may not at another time.
Once you determine that a man or a group is
frustrated; identify·the source of the frustration
and try to solve the problem. In doing so, you
m:ust be cause ·orieµted .and· not symptom oriented. Do ri.ot m~ke snap jiadgment. If frustration is the problein 1. remem.b:er that frustration
is cumulative. What may ap1pear to be the primary cause of the frustration may only be "the
straw th.at broke the camel's back," the la.st of a
long series of cauis:Els 0f frustrations. By discussing a man's problem with him, you can in
most cases be able· to determine or to help him
determine the cause of his problem.

a

There are nume·r<>us problems that can arise
relating to the job, the unit, or the Army which
may be solved by the leader. The cause of a
soldier's frustration may be his. inability to get
along with members of his squad. In this case,
the leader can eliminate the cause by finding
out why he is not getting along and helping him
understand what adjustments he can make to

FM 22-100

PR

work," and by maintaining unit integrity whenever possible.
Keep channels of communication open in order
to provide an outlet for their problems.
Establish reasonable logical and reasonable
rules, regulations, and SOP.
Insure that human needs are satisfied and that
the men are motivated and well trained.
The efforts of a leader to prevent frustration
are not always completely successful. Some
frustration is inevitable. Fortunately, most
men can tolerate frustration to some degree.
Because frustration is inevitable, an important
aspect of leadership is in learning how to manage frustration so that it does not become destructive to the man or the unit. This
management of frustration is actually adjustment to the situation. This is addressed later in
this chapter.

resolve the problem. In some instances it may
benefit the unit and the soldier if he is transferred to another squad. Other causes of frustration such as personal problems may require
the leader to prompt the soldier ·to seek help
from the chaplain, Army Emergency Relief, Red
Cross, Judge Advocate General, hospital, etc.
Still other problems can be solved only by the
soldier himself. In these cases, the leader may
help him eliminate the cause by suggesting
ways to overcome the problem or by suggesting
altern.ate goals.
Solving a problem is not the final step for the
leader. After the cause of the frustration has
been identified and eliminated, the leader must
take steps to prevent a recurrence and future
frustration. Just as it is easier to put oil into
your automobile engine than to replace a
burned-out engine, it is easier to prevent frustration than to correct it. There are a number of
steps you, the leader, can take to prevent frustration in your men.
Condult an honest self-evaluatiQn to determine
if you are causing frustration. Your personality, your method of operating, and your manner
of comlnunicating with them are some of the
things which may frustrate your men. For example, if you give sarcastic replies to their
questions you may build up a resistance to your
leadership.
See tha.t your men are meaningfully employed.
Do this by planning ahead, eliminating "busy

Press·ure involves internal feelings of tension,
anxiety, or fear experienced by a person in a
situat.ion which he sees as demanding or threat~
ening•; An example of pressure is the feeling you
had when you stood your first "in-ranks"
inspection. Pressure, like frustration, may be
caused by internal or external sources.
INTERNAL PRESSURE

Internal sources of pressure center around our
own aspirations and egos. When a man has high
ideals, in terms of work to be done and standards to be met, the pressure may be severe and
continuous. The career oriented soldier who
wants to get his college degree, go to officer
candidate school, and end his career as a general officer, for example, may experience pressure his entire career. In general, the wellmotivated person who wants to do a good job is
more likely to experience pressure than is the
unmotivated persol). Many men drive themselves relentlessly and try to attain unrealistic
standards of work, courage, and social acceptance. They may feel that they should work
harder, get along with everyone, be braver, and
be better persons than they are. This may be
good because it can motivate many men to do
we:ll, but they will have to cope with the resulting pressure.
EXTERNAL PRESSURE

There are many sources of external pressure.
There is pressure to succeed in a competitive
society; pressure to produce well over an extended period; pressure to adjust to constantly
changing conditions; and pressure to satisfy
wishes of family, peers, and superiors. These
9-5

FM 22-100

reaches his individual "overload point," the
point at which he is no longer able to function
effectively under the pressure that he feels.
In our highly competitive society, people grow
up learning to compete for everything-grades
in school, athletic honors, popularity, jobs, leadership positions, money, and social status.
Some men are more competitive than others,
and some are better equipped to handle the
pressures created by competition. Not everyone
can be a winner all the time. Striving to do the
impossible invites frustration and self-devaluation. While competitive pressure drives many to
greater productivity and higher standards of
excellence; such pressure may be harmful if it
leads to constant "overloading" of a person's
ability to adjust or to cope with the pressure.
This type of pressure is more severe among
motivated leaders whose success is partially
dependent upon competitive performance.
Sustained concentration of effort is another
pressure to which all men are exposed at one
time or another. This pressure often occurs as a
result of having a job for which many demands
are felt for a prolonged period. Generally, the
higher in the chain of command a leader is, the
greater the pressure caused by demands for
decisionmaking and production.
Being unfamiliar with a problem and the suddenness with which it arises may create pressure. An example of this is the pressure a basic

are but a few of the more prevalent sources of
pressure which we face daily.
A person may maintain an outwardly, calm
behavior pattern through a long series of minor
pressures and suddenly explode over some
seemingly minor incident. The people around
him may be completely surprised by his reaction, not realizing that it represents the culmination of a long series of minor pressures.
Pressure can be handled by a person until he
9-6

FM 22-100

than when preparing for a routine company
inspection, because the inspector general's
inspection is more important than a routine
inspection. The second factor is that the longer
a pressure situation continues, the more severe
the strain. The number of demands made at one
time also has a direct bearing on the degree of
pressure felt. Each man has a different level of
pressure that he can stand. It depends on his
maturity, personal characteristics, the situation, and the presence or absence of support
from others. Under mild pressure, a person
normally adjusts easily with little or no loss of
efficiency. Under moderate pressure, adjustment may be difficult and some efficiency will
be lost. Under severe pressure, ability to adjust
is overtaxed and inefficiency results.

trainee feels when he first enters active duty.
He may be unfamiliar with his new surroundings and activities and, because of a desire to
do well, may experience some pressure. In some
cases, this pressure makes it difficult for a new
soldier to adjust to Army, life.
If a situation represents a possible threat, it
adds to the pressure. Situations which entail a
possibility of physical harm, such as rappelling
down a cliff, could exert great pressure. Simi1arly, situations which threaten a person's
value to the Army, such as failing to do a job
that he should be able to, involve a strong
element of pressure. In general, a situation
believed to be threatening creates more strain
than a situation presenting a difficult, but
manageable problem.
Anticipation of pressure itself can cause pressure as the pressqre inducing event becomes
imminent. You may have felt pressure build up
inside you as the time approached for you to
address a group of people, particularly people
with whom you are closely associated or those
who can influence your career.
The severity or level of pressure is the degree of
strain (tension, anxiety, or fear) produced
within a person. The degree of strain felt
depends on a number of factors. First is the
importance attached to the situation. The strain
may be greater when preparing for the inspector general's annual inspection, for example,

Stressful situations may not cause any strain
at all in some men. If the man is confident that
he can handle the situation, then he probably
will feel very little pressure. On the other hand,
if he feels he is not confident, he will feel great
pressure. The level of competence, perception,
the presence or absence of threat, and self-confidence all contribute to one's ability to withstand
pressure.
Another factor determining the degree of pressure experienced is the evaluation given to the
problem. When someone does not get a job he
wants or needs, he may think that he is a
failure. Another man in this situation might
view it as good fortune as he will now have more
time to mature and prepare for the job at a
future date.
The evaluation of a problem depends on the
person's whole system of beliefs. If he views the
world as a dangerous and hostile place, each
new demand will add to the burden he already
bears. If he sees the world as friendly, the
demands will be viewed as manageable. For
instance, the person who feels that the world is
"out to get him" may view a task assigned to
him by his leader as more work which will keep
him from his family and from doing what he
desires. This man's performance will probably
be satisfactory at best. On the other hand, the
man who has a good outlook will probably view
the assignment of additional tasks as a vote of
confidence from the leader. He will in most
cases do a more-than-satisfactory job.
An appraisal of a threat situation is affected by
self-evaluation. If the man views himself as
helpless and inadequate, a problem that looks
minor to someone else might look serious to
him. Failing a proficiency test might spark a
9-7

FM 22-100

self-confident soldier to study harder while it
may convince the less confident man that he is
not capable of passing any proficiency test.
This points out the difficulty in predicting the
effect a situation or demand will have on a
person because he reacts not to the situation
alone, but also to how he perceives, defines, and
evaluates it. Most people are not aware of how
life's pressures cause them to act the way they
do.
PRESSURE TOLERANCE

The degree of pressure that each man can tolerate is fairly constant for that man. There may
be variations in certain situations. Working as
a staff officer might create severe pressure for
some people, but very little for others. Disappointments, emergencies, and other life
problems that many can take in stride might be
too much for others to handle. Some can function well under complex and difficult situations, while others are so marginally adjusted
that the slightest pressure presents a serious
problem to them. Each person has his own
vulnerable points. Some may be able to cope
with failure, b.ut not criticism, others with prejudice and discrimination, but not with disappointment.
Usually, men are not alone when they face a
pressure situation. If they go in a difficult job,
they can count on emotional support from their
family and friends and perhaps assistance
from other sources. Lack of external support,
either personal or material, will increase pressure and weaken their ability to cope with the
situation. Consequently, it is not surprising

that, when under pressure, most people tum to
, others for support and reassurance.
Under pressure, for example, a soldier may
have his ability to recognize and define a
problem reduced. If when operating under pressure he is given a mission, he may not understand all that the mission entails. His ability to
cope with the problem may diminish, and only
one course of action may be identified. Efficiency may also be impaired. "Examination
jitters" cause people to do poorly on an examination, even after adequate preparation. In
fact, high levels of tension, anxiety, or fear may
lead to erratic behavior as well as to poor
performance.
When a man copes with one severe situation, a
lowering of tolerance for another situation may
result. Soldiers who develop resistance to the
pressure of combat may become unusually sensitive to bad news from home. A man who can
tactfully follow the instructions of a difficult
boss all day may have no patience left for his·
teenage son when he gets home.

9-8

FM 22-100

If pressure is viewed as unwarranted or arbitrary, the natural tendency is to resist it. Some
people resist pressure actively by being defiant
and rebellious while others will resist passively
by not paying attention, malingering, acting
helpless, and deliberately performing below
their capabilities. Resisting pressure is often
important to a person maintaining his integrity and his dignity, and in protecting himself
from being overloaded .with requirements.
COPING WITH ·PRESSURE

A normal, well-adjusted life results not from a
lack of pressure, but from learning to cope with
pressure. However, coping with pressure has a
price in terms of effort, resources, and time.
For severe or continuous pressure, the price
may be high. A leader can help his men cope
with pressure. Insure, as much as possible, that
the men are 1'0t exposed to prolonged periods of
intense pressure. Give them adequate time to
rest and take care of personal needs. Keeping
your men informed of the situation and what is
expected from them will help to reduce pressure.
The soldier's ability to withstand pressure can
be increased by increasing their knowledge and
self-confidence through training. If a soldier
has performed a task well in training, the next
time he is given that task or a similar tas.k, tbie
pressure will not be. as great because the task is
not new to him. Tn:i:o~rh training, men become
familiar with their @wn jobs and abilities, and
with those of the other members of the unit.
They can practice procedures, develop teamwork, reduce the probability of being confronted
by unfamiliar situations, and develop confidence in themselves and their unit.

Putting the right man in the right job helps
preclude pressure. The soldier who is in a job
which satisfies his needs is much less likely to
experience pressure than one who is not satisfied with his job. He enjoys the work, and,
because of his interest, becomes much more
proficient at it.
Once soldiers are proficient at their duties, they
· usually do not like to be moved to a new position unless such a move will satisfy one of their
personal needs. Therefore, the leader must keep
personnel changes to a minimum. Leaders
should be consistent in their actions because if
their men never know what to expect, they will
experience pressure caused by tension and anxiety.
The best thing leaders can do to reduce the
pressure, if the source of pressure cannot be
eliminated, is to be present in stressful situations. If the leader remains calm and confident
his men will gain strength to withstand the
pressure. In combat this conduct can mean the
difference between success and failure. For example, the commander whose company is in
action, should position himself where he can
best influence the outcome of the operation. In
an attack he should be near the maneuver element. If his forces are slowed or stopped, his
'presence alone may influence his men to continue. Soldiers who see their leader demonstrating his strength in stressful situations respond
by viewing the situation as less threatening.
The leader cannot expect his men to show less
effect of pressure than he does, so he must
conceal the effects of pressure he feels, not by
denying that he is under pressure, but by acting
with cool confidence.

SUMMARY

The leader must be alert for situations which produce frustration and
pressure. He must strive to reduce their bad effects by training,
counseling, arranging for professional assistance, providing external
support, and setj;ing a good example. Soldiers perform well only when
their pressure and frustration is kept at an acceptable level.

9-9

FM 22-100

\ I

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 10

Leaders make decisions everyday involving not
only themselves, but the morale and welfare of
their subordinates. Some decisions, such as
when to take a break or where to store supplies
are simple decisions which have little effect on
others. Other decisions may be based on policies, procedures, or regulations. These are also
simple decisions and are' based on the leaders'
kn.ow ledge and experience in similar situations.
Other decisions, such as what training to schedule for the coming month or which formation to
choose when attacking an objective, are more
complex and may have a significant effect on
the men and unit. These more complex decisions often require the leader to consult others
because he may not have all the pertinent information. This does not mean that he makes all
simple decisions alone or that all complex decisions are made by consulting others. There are
times when he will consult others on simple
decisions. For example, should physical training be scheduled before breakfast, during midmorning, during midafternoon, or at the close
of the duty day? If this many alternatives are
available, it may be wise to get additional information from several other sources before the

final deci$ion is made. There wiU be times
when, because of the situation or time available,
immediate decisions will have to be made
without consulting anyone, as in combat when
time frequently is not available to consult
others.
Decisionmaking is a conscious process for selecting a course of action from two or more
alternatives for the purpose of achieving a desired result. There are three elements in this
definition: choice, consciousness, and orientation toward a goal.
A decision cannot be made if the leader does not
have a choice between courses of action. If only
one choice is available, no decision is required.
However, this does not mean that "to do nothing'' is not an available course of action. On the
contrary, to wait and see how a situation develops or to allow time to gather more facts is
often a wise course of action. Decisionmaking
must be a conscious process in order to avoid
overlooking important factors which might vitally affect the decision. A well thought-out decision avoids the difficulties which may arise as
the result of a snap decision. Further, decisions
must be oriented toward the attainment of some
10-1

FM 22-100

seen from this example, identifying the problem
may not be easy. Often, considerable time and
effort may be expended in an effort to determine what the real problem is. The more clearly
a problem is defined and isolated, the easier it
is to arrive at a solution.

-PHASeS

~

Jdenlifr f/Je
problem---

Implement ~

meaningful goal. Otherwise, resources may be
expended in reaching and carrying out decisions which do not contribute to the accomplishment of unit missions.
When a leader makes a decision, either with or
without advice from others, he should arrive at
it by a procedure which allows for logical consideration of all influencing factors and possibiHties. The leader may go through this
procedure quickly in his mind, or he may write
it step-by-step in order to have all aspects of the
problem covered and so that nothing is overlooked while he is considering and evaluating
the possibilities.
The terms used here may differ from those you
use to describe your own decisionmaking process, but the orderly progression from identification of the problem to re-evaluation of the
decision is probably the same.
The decisionmaking process consists of three
phases and contains six steps. The leader may
not be able to identify exactly what the problem
is. For example, suppose his unit has been
dispatching 10 trucks daily, and suddenly he is
able to dispatch only five. Is the problem a
shortage of drivers, qualified mechanics, repair
parts, POL, or is it one of motivation? As can be
10-2

When the problem has been defined, the next
step is to gather the information needed to solve
the problem. In this step, all factors that affect
the problem must be considered. Some of the
information may not bear on the problem at
hand. So the leader must sift through the information and use only that which applies to that
specific problem. He must also realize that a
person's attitude may alter information. So,
when gathering the information to solve a
problem, consider the attitude of the people
providing the information so that you can allow
for its impact on the information. For example,
the motor sergeant tells the motor officer there
is no problem getting repair parts when it actually takes 60 days to get parts. The motor
sergeant may consider this to be a normal time
delay, so to him it is no problem. To the motor
officer, however, this may be totally unsatisfactory, and therefore a problem.
The second phase of the decisionmaking process
is the decision phase. It involves developing
courses of action, analyzing them, and selecting
the best one to solve the problem. Step three, the
development of courses of action, requires an
analysis of the available information so as to
determine whether each course of action will or
will not solve the problem.

~iCdat11
~~~~~~~~~~~@}W

~ ~~wlbn: $@$$D@r?D~
11

ARi USffUa.. ...

FM 22-100

Conducting "brainstorming" or "skull" sessions
is a good technique to use when there is difficulty in developing courses of action. Brainstorming is a creative technique which
encourages several persons to suggest as many
solutions to a problem as possible.. The idea
behind brainstorming is to all9w each member
of the group to give his suggestions without fear
of criticism. Keep in mind that in. these sessions, the emphasis is on quantity rather than
on quality, especially since a "fa'r·ouV' solution
may trigger a workable idea frotn someone els~
in the group. Evaluate all suggestions'following
the session, and discard ·those that are' not
feasible.
1

After the courses of action have been developed,
analyze each one to determine its good and bad
points so that a better evaluation of each course
of action can be made. Through this evaluation,
the best course of action may be determined. A
useful point to remember is that a course of
action may appear worthless in itself, but when
it is combined with a second course of action, it
may become the best possible solution. Therefore, a good decisionmaker guards against letting his instinctive first reaction to a problem
·color the analyzing process. An open mind.must
be maintained throughout the decisionmaking
process.
Up to this point in the decisionmaking process,
.several people may have been involved in the
search for the best solution. Subordinates may
have been used to research the problem, gather
data, and develop and analyze the various
courses of action. The leader should also, if time
permits, talk to those directly concerned with
the problem to gather additional information
and, if possible, solicit their comments and
cooperation in seeking the best solution.

The study of behavioral science has revealed
that subordinates are more likely to support a
plan or decision if they have had a part in its
development. This technique wUl pay dividends
in terms of increased motivation and better
efficiency on the part of the unit. There will be
situations when a leader must make decisions
without consulting anyone. However, if a climate of discipline has been established, oneman decisions will be accepted readily.
Participation in the decisionmaking process
must end when the decision is reached. Prior to
this, the leader should encourage differences of
opinion from all parties because honest differences are useful in determining the pros and
cons of each alternative. The key is to encourage objective differences and to avoid emotionalism. Although this is a difficult task, the
leader must train his subordinates to express
their views objectively. This will allow him to
make decisions based on what is right rather
than on who is right. If personalities are allowed to creep into the decisionmaking process,
there is a risk of having those personalities
color the decision. After the decision is made,
all subordinates must support it to the best of
their ability.
·
There is another point to consider when making
decisions. Sometimes the best course of action
c~nnot be follewed due. to factors beyond the
leader's control. For example, the best solution
to the problem of moving a unit to a new
location may be to load it all on. helicopters and
move it at one time. If, at the last minute, a
sufficient number of helicopters is not available, the next best course of a.ction must be
chosen, which might be to move the unit in two
lifts.
Once the decision is made, it is time to act. In
this sixth step, the decision must be put into
effect an4 then evaluated to insure that the
desired results are being achieved. This evaluation is often a neglected step in the decisionmaking process. Because that which is a good
decision today may not be a good decision
tomorrow, all plans and policies must be continually re-evaluated. Additionally, one decision
may create other problems within the organization. Therefore, a good decisionmaker builds a
feedback mechanism into the plan to evaluate
the effectiveness of his decisions. The various
ways to get feedback are discussed in chapter
11.
The decisionmaking process, when viewed by
itself, may appear as a rather mechanical one.
Remember that in explaining or using the proc10-3

FM 22-100

Another error is an attempt by a leader to deal
with the symptoms rather than the causes of a
problem. It is too late for the leader to counsel
the AWOL soldier when he returns. He should
have counseled the man before he went AWOL
and perhaps the AWOL could have been prevented. Additionally, leaders often look for the
simple decision, whether it is the best one or
not. Perhaps because simple decisions are
easier to implement and explain, they are
chosen over more complex decisions. Do not
automatically choose the first simple approach
to solving a problem. This is not to say that
simple solutions are not often good, but each
decision, whether simple or complex must be
evaluated for its contribution toward the accomplishment of both the mission at hand and
future unit goals.

ess it is easy to isolate one area of concern from
the overall situation and to. examine it without
regard for the other actions which are taking
place. Decisions cannot be made this way. No
one decision is isolated from the rest of the
situation. Each one must be made in light of
everything else that is taking place within the
unit.
DECISIONMAKING ERRORS

An understanding of.the decisionmaking process is critical. Of almost equal importance is
familiarity with the errors which the leader can
make during the development of a decision so
that they can be avoided.
Perhaps the worst error in decisionmaking is
attempting to solve immediate problems without
regard to the long range effects of their solutions. In this fashion the leader often finds
himself in ·a situation where, instead of reaching a "right" solution, he makes a never ending
series of small adjustments which provide only
temporary relief. Such remedial decisions do
not promote the accomplishment of future

goals.

10-4

Many leaders rely too much on their own experience instead of consulting with peers, subordinates, and others. The success which the
leader enjoyed in a previous similar situation
may have been due entirely to luck. Each leader
must put his own experience in proper perspective and understand that shared decisionmaking often produces wiser decisions.
In some instances leaders base their decisions
on preconceived notions. In these instances, the
leader either "doctors" the facts to support his
decision or uses only those facts which result in
the preconceived decision. In order to reach the
best possible decision, the leader must use the
decisionmaking process with an open mind and
with impartial consideration of all available
facts.
Finally, a leader may try to "pass the buck." He
does not want to make any decision himself and
tries to get either his superiors or his subordinates to make the decision for him. He may feel
that he is not prepared to accept the consequences of a bad decision and by getting someone else to make it for him, he will not be held
responsible if the results are unsatisfactory.
The final point to consider about the decisionmaking process is that all decisions should be
made at the lowest possible level within the
chain of command. This practice will improve
the motivation, the ability, and the efficiency of
all leaders.

FM 22-100

SUMMARY

Decisionmaking is a continual process involving in,terpersonal relationships from top to bottom in any organization. Before a good
decision can be reached, the leader must first recognize the problem and
gather all information needed to solve the problem. Second, he must
develop, analyze, and select the best solution to the problem. Upon
reaching a decision, he must inform those concerned of the decision and
be alert for changing situations which may require his decision to be
modified or changed.

.i'

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 11

Through communication with others, the leader
employs his command and issues his decisions
for action. Without the ability to convey instructions and orders to subordinates clearly,
the leader may as well operate in a vacuum,
completely detached from his unit. A good plan
is worthless unless every man in the unit understands his part.
Communication is "an exchange of information" or "a technique fo.r ·expteE1Sit1g ideas
clearly." Leaders are $url'ou;n.d.~d by barriers to
communication and c.omm;uhicaJfon often
breaks down .. Mudd'led. cotti~,Wnicfation is a
major Army prQoletn;
· ·
'': :i!t .
'';;: ';::·/'.$>;~

FORMAL COMMUNICATION
'

·.

-

•·•(. ',,,

,,

.- .

'.~-~:"

Understanding the Army'sf?rm'
unicating system is the first '~t~j) ,t
reffective
communication. 'l;'his sy~t~ll'l,' is>-t; ,, :, chain of
command which carries officiaF;i~f~.fu\llation.
Through the chain of con:nnan'tf ~h~ le,ader
issues instruetio~s for the perfor . · oe .of unit
tasks, conveys his policies and st'
ardi$,,?and,
conducts the 1'business" of the unit. It is two-

a

way system in that; first, it carries information
from the leader to all or to any part of the unit;
and second, it carries information from within
the unit to the leader.
A common assumption about the downward
flow of information is that when the leader
wants to pass information to his men, he merely
inserts. the information into the chain of
command, and it is then transmitted
throughaut the unit reaching all those for whom
it was intended.
It does not work that well. Frequently information is distorted, diluted, changed, or stopped
before it reaches all those for whom it was
intended. Usually, as information travels down
the chaiil'of command, it becomes more specific
because refinements and details are added at
each level through which it. passes. A simple
statement made by a commander could becom.e
a major proje.ct by the time it re•aeh.es lower
levels. For example, the divhiion. c,ommander
may tell his G3, "I plll,.ll to vis\t the rivercrossing exercise that A Com:p,~ny, 1st Battal1

11-1 .

FM 22-100

• What stress, if any, the leader is operating under.
• What importance the leader attaches to
the information.
• What the leader feels at the moment he is
passing the information.
When we consider the filters that information
must pass through at each level, it is understandable that distortion, dilution, or total loss
of information occurs. Do not misunderstand
these remarks. After all, it is the leader's job to
filter messages in order to clarify them or add
to them when required. The leader, however,
should not allow his personal values, attitudes,
beliefs, and feelings to filter communications
inappropriately.
Upward communication or feedback is also vitally important. Leaders need upward communication to help them make and evaluate
decisionmaking, policies and decisions and to
foresee problems which they can plan to avoid.
A downward communication has the bosses'
seal of approval behind it. A kind of gravity
flow exists. On the other hand, feedback must go

ion, 69th Infantry, will conduct on Monday. Tell
the CO I will be there around 1000 hours.'' By
the time this information reaches the company
commander, it may be an order to conduct a
river-crossing demonstration at 1000 hours
Monday for the division commander, and it
may require rehearsals for the battalion and
brigade commanders. Processing information
at the various levels slows its flow and adds
distortion. The information goes through personal filters at each level where additions and
deletions are made based on interpretation.
Some of the more common filters are• What the leader believes he "heard" (either verbally or in writing).
• What the leader believes his men should
know.
• What the leader believes his men want to
know.
• What the leader believes his boss wants
him to pass along.
• What the leader thinks should be "toned
down" or "built up."
• What the leader's values and attitudes do
to the information.
11-2

FM 22-100

upstream all the way; the "people filters" are
more severe and cutting than those applied to
downward communication. So it is more difficult to develop feedback. Some common filters
that people apply to upward communication
are• The notion that any opinion in opposition to a superior's idea is 0 negative thinking''
and therefore bad.
• The notion that soldiers always gripe,
and you should only worry when they don't.
• The belief that the information is 1.mimportant and that the originator does not have
the big picture in mind.
• The belief that superiors are not interested in the information.
• The belief that you will get into trouble
for passing along this type of information.
• The belief that the information will reflect
adversely on you, your ability, or your unit.
• The belief that your superiors only want
to be told the good things and not the bad
things.
Do not think that all filters are bad. Some serve
a useful purpose. You should try to solve
problems, take the required&.ction, and pass ort
upward only significant infomt.atiM1 1 ¥1~ must
determine what is• significartt.and:''Wih.ia.t.%is Mt~
The acid te.st is to ask.you:riielf ~:k~t}\t~t·you
would need or like to have thi'S inforrila:tien if
you were the next leader up in the organization.
If the answer is yes, pass it up the. c.chain of
command.
1

INFORMAL COMMUNICATION

In addition to the Army's formal communication system, there are a number of informal
ones. These informal systems of exchanging
information canexert either a helpful or a
disruptive force within a unit,
One informal communication system is the lateral system. This. is the exchange of information between leaders or staff members of equal
levels in . the organization. For instance, the
platoon leaders inform each other of what they
are doing and pass on to each other information
they get from the company commander and
other sources. For example, while .leaders go to
their own unit mail').tenance officers to get technical help hi maintaining their equipthent, they
may also go directly to those of adjacent units
or of direct support units to get help.
A second informal communication system is the
social communjcation system. It is not confined
to work problems or interests. Membership in

this system is based on social position within
the ~nit. People group together to drink coffee,
eat lunch, bowl, go out on the town, and have
other social contacts outside working hours.
This grouping depends on such things as skill
or ability, job assignment, ethnic background,
or taste and values.
These groups, and there may be any number of
them in a unit, have significant influence on
the unit. By standing together, members of a
group can influence the commander's actions in
regard to a policy, regulation, or procedure.
When a new policy is released, for example, it is
discussed in the group; which inevitably makes
judgments concerning it. Each member of the
group knows what the other's feelings are on the
new policy. They usually all react to it in the
same way. The reactions of these groups can
give the leader valuable information on how his
policies are viewed by the unit.·
Social c9mmunication systems usually control
the actions of their members. For example, the
clerks in a finance section know what they
consider to be a fair day's work. If a new clerk
violates the standards of' the group, the group
can bring him·into line by refusing to associate
\\'ithhim, both on and offduty; he gets excluded
:f~om"th,.egt~ip~to~~e;rn~tie aped i:inack bar and
ft'omth(?ft\ nights out:oh the'to\vn; and, when his
desk is. overlo~1~ed, no,~me ·offers to help. The
grottp. canquihkly force him to meet their standards ot' make his U(e so dissatisfying that he
will seelttransfer to a'new unit.
Do not assume that social groups influence
only the lower-ranking people. Every man in
the organization, including high-ranking officers, is a member of some social group, and is
influenced by it. As might be expected, formal
communications are interpreted by such
groups. These groups can make bad policy
work, but they can also defeat the intent-of a
good policy.
The reaction of a social group to a policy is the
direct result of the group's evaluation of that
policy. The response of each member will
conform to the standard set by the group. If
they view the policy as bad, their collective
actions can influence the actions of other
members of the unit. The initiator of the policy
may ha.ye to re-evaluate it to determine its
worth
the unit. If it is a useful policy, then
the unit members must be influenced to follow
it; if it proves to be .a poor one, it should be
either .rescinded or revised.
Leaders tend to distrust the influence of the
1

to

11-3

FM 22-100

social groups and to think that they are not
good for the unit. On the contrary, these groups
can be potent forces for high morale and productivity. In fact, there is evidence that membership in these groups is among the most
satisfying aspects of one's work. If the members
of such a group like each other, like their leader,
and identify with the unit's goals, their strength
is tremendous. In fact, these informal groups
can give the unit service and work effectiveness
that the leader could not get through other
means.
The leader's job in dealing with social groups is
to see that they have ample and correct information, to understand their viewpoints, to
transmit pertinent reactions upward through
formal channels, and to be available to the
groups as needed. The leader does this by knowing who the group's leaders are and by informally talking to them. In this way, he can get a
feel for the social groups' reactions to the unit's
activities. He can listen for useful ideas and
insure that the social group is correctly informed. In short, the leader becomes the communications center for their messages.
The "grapevine" is the third informal communication system within the Army. It differs from
other systems in that it uses the others in
combination to pass on information. How much

the various systems contribute to the dissemination of a communication depends on the significance of the communication concerned. The
more importance a system attaches to the information, the more that system will help disseminate the information. The only communication
system which does not usually become a part of
the "grapevine" is the formal, or chain of
command, system.
Everyone likes the information he hears to
make good sense. If it does not make good sense,
men sometimes invent additional information
or. interpret the fragmentary information received so that it does make sense, at least to
them. This is the effect that the "grapevine" has
on partial information, and on complete information which does not make sense. A leader
may understand a situation while his soldiers
may not. Therefore to avoid distortion of information in the "grapevine" system, make sure
that enough information is available which provides a reasonable explanation for the situation
at hand.
Sometimes a leader can influence the action by
interpreting the information so that his men
understand it correctly. If he himself does not
understand the message, he should ask for clarification before passing the information to his
men. There may be occasions, however, when
this is not possible. In such cases, the leader
must give his men the message and explain that
he is trying to get it clarified.

11-4

FM 22-100

once a rumor has been accepted, it is difficult to
get troops to accept the facts. In some instances
they may distort later news to make it coincide
with the initial rumor. There seems to be little
hope that rumors can ever be completely eliminated.
COMMUNICATION BARRIERS

Merely understanding the various communication systems in your unit will not guarantee
that you will have good communication. There
are barriers to communicating which can reduce the effectiveness of your unit.

Do not view "grapevine" as harmful. By evaluating the information being carried by the grapevine, you can learn more about what is going
on within the unit. You may also use the
grapevine to help identify problems within your
unit or to determine how new policies are being
accepted by your men~
If the information being passed in the grapevine is wrong or is a rumor that can injure the
unit, the leader should act at once to bring out
the facts concerning the subject of the rumor.
As soon as you hear a rumor, determine what
facts (if any) it is based on, gather the men
concerned, and state: "So and so is a rumor, the
facts are
." If leaders take this action,
the damage done by rumors will be curtailed.
For example, a common rumor in a combat
zone is that the troops will be home for
Christmas. Often this type of rumor is based on
a newspaper or magazine article which says, "X
number of troops will be home for Christmas."
The men may interpret the article as referring
to their particular unit. In this case, it is up to
the leader to explain that although some troops
will be released to go home early, he does not
know which units will be involved. He should
further state that as soon as factual information is available, he will forward it. However,

The first of these barriers is distortion. When
distorted communications finally come to the
leader's attention, they are often complex and
confusing. Often when a distorted message finally reaches the leader, it is difficult to separate facts from feelings and emotions. In this
case, the leader should realize that he is dealing
with the perceptions and prejudices of his men
and must take action based on this knowledge.
He must prevent his feelings from entering the
picture and rely entirely on his awareness of
the facts. By being objective, examining the
reactions of his troops, and presenting them
with the facts, he can replace the distorted
communications with those which were origi.nally intended. Furthermore, the leader must
point out to his men that in this situation the

1:

I.
11-5

FM 22-100

message was distorted and that in the future
· care must be taken to prevent recurrence. The
leader must make it clear that if men do not
understand messages, they should question
them.
Lack of an open exchange of information
between the followers and the leader is another
barrier to communication. Your men find it
difficult to "level" with you, particularly if your
actions have resulted in failure or faulty operations. It is difficult for them to tell you that
"you goofed" for fear of your reaction.
Lack of trust will also be a barrier to communication. What your men believe you have done
with previously reported information will influence what they will report in the future. If
reporting bad news previously resulted in a
"chewing out" from you, future small failures
may not be reported to you. Similarly, if your
men sense that nothing they report is acted
upon, they will stop comm.unicatingwith you.
Language or word differences can also create
communicationbarriers. We often failto understand clearly some words or terms used in
conversation. There are different connotations
and meanings attached to words in various
sections of the country and by different racial,
occupational, and other groups. For example,
many people Use the term "boy" in everyday
speech--such as, "Boy, you sure did a good job
today.'' Most people receive this message as it
was intended-as a compliment. On the other
hand; another man may take the term "boy" as
a demeaning or degrading r~mark. These differences can block understanding.

Per~onality clashes and power struggles within
a unit can reduce communication to zero. If two
squad leaders are trying to outdo each other to
get the platoon sergeant's job, conditions in that
platoon will probably deteriorate so that no
communication will exist. Lateral communication b'etween the squad leaders will stop, and
each will p'I'obably be so interested in making
himself look good at the expense of the other
that the teamwork within the platoon will disappear. This .friction may range from noticeable
tension to open conflict. The leader should
strive toldentify and analyze a stressful situation, determin.e the cause, and eliminate it.
While some conflicts are conscious acts; many
may not be recogniz'3d as such by the participants."
An additional barrier to communication may be
caused by experience levels within a unit. In
one case, an experienced leader may view a new
11-6

man as not knowing anything, or he may assume that the new man knows everything that
he, the leader, knows. In the first instance, the
man's intelligence is insulted, and in the second
instance he is unable to perform as the leader
expected. In another case, a newly commissioned lieutenant and an experienced platoon
sergeant may not be able to communicate unless they are aware of this barrier and try to
overcome it. The platoon leader must seek advice or ask questions when he does not understand or is uncertain of his actions. The
platoon sergeant must recognize the difference
in experience and support the platoon leader
by, to begin with, clear communications.
A lack of confidence and respect between a
leader and a subordinate can block communication. For example, if you give a man guiClance
on how to perform a task and he has little or no
confidence in you as a leader, he may disregard
your instructions, change them to what he
thinks. they should be, or perform at a low
standard.
If leaders at all levels pass information as they
would like to receive it, problems will be reduced. This also applies to the content of the
communication. Voice, tone, volume, emphasis,
and body expression are important aspects of
communication which cannot be overlooked. Inappropriateness in any of these items can focus
attention on something other than the intent of
the communication. For example, a leader who,
while giving instructions, leans forward, raises
the volume of his voice, makes forceful gestures,
and looks directly into his listener's eyes,
imparts urgency and. importance to his message. The same message, delivered by the same
leader in a soft voice: body half turned, hands
hanging loosely at his sides, and eyes downcast,
will not convey the same meaning.

Each communication must be given in a
manner which allows no room for misinterpretation by the receiver. For example, a helicopter
pilot was given the mission of capturing an
enemy soldier who was separated from his unit.
and running through a field. As the helicopter
landed near the fleeing enemy soldier, the pilot
ordered his door gunner, "Get him!" What were
the door gunner's actions? Did he "get him" by
firing with his machfnegun or did he "get him"
by leaving the helicopter and physically capturing him? The order, "get him" is subject to
interpretation by the door gunner, and the door
gunner's actions may not be what was intended
by the· pilot.

FM 22-100

COMMUNICATION BREAKDOWNS

to bottom, although all the platoon leader
wanted them to do was sweep the floor. Such
communication failures could be avoided if the
leader would require feedback from his subordinates. Many subordinates, when given a new
task, hesitate to ask questions because they do
Competition for attention occurs when a person
not want to ask what may seem to be a silly
receiving the communication is trying to do
question. They may think the boss does not
several things at once. When you are interwant them to ask a lot of questions or that the
rupted, one solution is to stop what you are
boss wants them to be resourceful enough to
doing, clear your mind, then concentrate on the
decide things for themselves. To overcome these
new subject until you understand the situation
hesitations, the leader must create an atmoscompletely." A satisfactory way" might be to put
phere in which his men can feel free to ask
off the matter for later consideration, or it may
questions. He must be careful to avoid an atbe to do something immediately. Either way,
. mosphere of "Ask when you should, but don't
you have taken care of the interruption and can
ask when you shouldn't." One way to insure
get back to the work you were doing originally.
that subordinates understand directives given
However, if you are on the other side of the
them is to ask "what" they understand rather
fence and are the person doing the interrupting, •·.~ than "if'' they understand. Such questions as
you must handle the situation differently. Your
"What are you going to do?" or "How are you
first step is to recognize that the other person is
going to handle this problem?" put the subordibusy and, if your business will wait, let it. If
nate on the spot and make him give a concrete
you must interrupt, limit your interruption to
answer. On the other hand, a question such as
as short a time as possible, making certain that
"Do you understand?" tends to make the suboryou have the full attention of the other person.
dinate say yes, whether he understands or not.
This may be hard to judge, especially if you are
talking over the telephone. Once you are satis-.
Misunderstandings oft~n occur w~en a person
. d th a t th e person 1s
· g1vmg
. · · you h'is f u.11 ,atten-.
uses
to d~scr1be
. .,, · a :word
·
·
.an action or event
f 1e
tion, explain your problem to him. a.nd wait forlt<'.1t'
his reaction. A good way to check how wel1 he:'· '
has understood you is to ask him what action he.
is going to take.
·
·
Circumstances which completely disrupt the
flow of communication are communication
breakdowns. Things that compete for a person's
attention may breakdown communication.

1

A communication breakdown often results from
a situation that affects the self-esteem of the
parties involved. Situations do occur in which
your men feel that their self-esteem is threatened. In such cases, if you are aware that some
of your men do not get along with each other,·
consider this when giving one of them a message that must go to or through the other. A . ·
solution is to have them talk out their differences or to transfer one or both of them so they
do not interfere with communication.
Uncertainty in what is expected may also lead
to a breakdown in .communication. When a man
does what he thinks he is supposed to do, but
actually does not do what his leader expected
him to do, there is a lack of communication
between them. For example, if a platoon leader·
tells his platoon sergeant to have the men do a
. "good" job cleaning up the barracks and if they
both understand what the other's standard of
"good'' is, there will be no problem. If they do
not understand each other's standards, however, there will obviously be a breakdown in
their communication. The platoon sergeant
may have the men scrub the barracks from top
11-7

FM 22-100

rather than describing the action or event. For
example, saying there was a fight between Privates Smith and Jones is quite different from
saying Private Smith and Private Jones do not
like each other and had an argument last night
over what they were going to watch on the
dayroom television set.
Oftentimes, within a unit or group of men,
words will assume special meanings, i.e., they
become jargon. Such words may not be understood by new men or men outside the unit.
For example, "Give me a Tango Charlie" instead of "Give me a timecheck" will confuse
those who have not been associ.ated with the
unit.
Jargon should not be used when dealing with
men who may not understand exactly what is
state.d or requested.
We know ho~ J>ersonal filters affect communication .. Such ~lters obviously' affect eommuni.:.
cation most whetr there ate many:people in the
commtinieatfon chain. It is difficult to' cottimu-

nicate urgency to people who are not directly
involved with the outcome of the event. If a
message is passed along by several people, the
original sense of urgency is often lost, the emphasis may be changed, or details may be
dropped out or added.
The leader must decide which is the best way to
solve communication breakdowns in his organization. He should be on guard for communication breakdowns if the following warning signs
are present: the message has heavy competition
because one of the people involved is busy doing
something else; the people involved have personality conflicts, are competing for status, or
are 'attempting to discredit each other; the message concerns a policy change which might lead
to confusion; or the message has to travel down
a lopg communication chain made up of many
people. Any '9£ these situations can break down
conimunicati6ri.. 'If the leader is aware of these
situ'atfons; he can take the steps to guard
against or remedf a communication failure.

SUMMARY

Few people will argue with the statement that "Leadership is the key to
the success of the Army." Communicating is the very essence of leadership because no leader is effective unless he can communicate.
All leaders are aware of the formal communication system; however, the
effective communicator will also consider the informal communication
systems which exist within his unit: work-relationships system, socialrelationships sy~tem,,.and the "grapevine." Each of these systems has its
own membership. They can have great influence on the unit and, if used
and controlled properly, can .be a great asset to a leader.
Through an awareness of the barriers to communicate, the leader can
decide which communication system to use, how to r~duc~the effects of
the barriers, and where to look should breakdowns occur: Good communication does not just happen-it must be developed and maintained by
each and every leader.
An important facet of the leader's responsibility for developipg and
maintaining effective communication is that of counseling. In the next
chapter, this responsibility for communicating with subordinates 'on a
personal basis and its significance as a means of influencing their
behavior will be discussed.

11-8.

CHAPTER 12

Counseling is one of the key elements of leadership. Counseling aims at changing things for
the better in the relationship, behavior,, and
functioning of persons. It is a process for assisting a person to find answers to his
p1·oblems. It is helping a person to help himself.
Counseling is the art of communicating advice,
instruction, or judgment, with the intent of
influencing a person's attitude or behavior. It
may be conducted either formally or informally.
It may range from a "pat on the back" for doing
a good job to having a man stand at attention
for a "chewing out." It may be conducted in the
motor pool, under a tree, or in an office under
more formal conditions. No matter how or
where counseling is performed, it is an essential and good part of leadership. ·.
THE EFFECTrYE COUNSELOR

In order to be an effective counselor, each
leader must first be available to his men. This is
demonstrated not merely by having an "open
door" policy, but by !:>eing available whenever a
soldier requires assistance:

L·eaders should admit to themselves that they
have particular likes, dislikes, biases, and prejudices and that they must be careful not to let
these interfere with the relationship between
themselves and their men. Recognizing the possibility of intrusion into the life of the counselee, the leader should maintain a reputation
for being able to keep a confidence. Additionally, instead of trying to solve every problem
himself, he should encourage the counselee to
solve his own problems. The approach, "I had a
problem just like yours," should be avoided. The
counselee is interested in solving his own
problems, not the leaders.
A leader as a counselor, does three things:
1. He provides encouragement and support
for change in the counselee.
2. He provides information in the form of
knowledge and sources of knowledge that will
help the counselee improve.
3. He plays a reinforcing role or an evaluative role in that he reinforces the counselee's
expressions of feelings or presents ideas that
will tend to help him improve performance or
12-1

FM 22-100

solve his own problems. Ideas that do not help
the counselee should not be reinforced. To prev1mt reinforcement of the ideas that are not
related to the problem at hand, guide the discussion away from them.
The leader should be observant, able to communicate, and flexible in his use of a variety of
counseling techniques. He must see the man he
is counseling as well as listen to him, because
observation of the man's actions during the
c<>urse of the counseling session will tell him
whether the man understands what he is being
told, whether he accepts what he is being told.
This information will help the leader to know
what needs elaboration, what requires followup, and what points need to be emphasized.
Communfoation is a two-Way flow of information. The leader should be able to communicate
clearly, concisely, and without "beating around
tl,te bush." He must express himself in terms
that can be understood. He must also be a good
listener. If the leader is conscious only of what
he feels and what he is going to say next, the
counselee is not getting the attention and assistance he requires.
GOOD PERFORMANCE COUNSELING

One important aspect of counseling is that it
should not, in fact it must not, be used solely to
point out and attempt to improve poor performance. As was mentioned in the chapters on
needs and motivation, it is most important to
satisfy men's need for self-esteem if they are to
perform well. Through counseling for good performance the leader can at least partially satisfy this need and motivate his men to continue
to perform well.
In counseling for good performance, try to be
specific, in order to emphasize and reinforce
behavior that is particularly noteworthy. In·
this way the soldier will be rewarded for good
behavior and will, because of the personal satisfaction gained, want to repeat that behavior.
TYPES OF COUNSELING

Leaders must use a type of counseling appropriate to the situation in order to best satisfy
the needs of their soldiers. Each type of counseling is aimed at solving a particular type
problem by using a specific approach. Four
types of counseling are:
Performance counseling
Personal counseling
Professional counseling
Career counseling
12-2

The first of these, performance counseling, is to
assist in improving the job performance of a
man or a unit. It can also be used to maintain a
level of performance that already exists.
Through performance counseling a soldier can
be told of his poor performance and how it can
be improved; and of his good performance so
that he may continue.
Personal counseling is used to help a man reach
a solution to a personal problem which pertains
to himself. These problems may involve rank
and promotion, job assignment, discrimination,
financial problems, family problems or any
problem involving his well being.
In many cases, the information or expertise
rEiquired to help a man solve a problem is not
available at unit level. For this reason, the
Army has people and agencies which offer
professional counseling. Professional counseling is conducted by men who are qualified in
specialized fields such as medicine, law, religion, or finance.
When a soldier has a problem beyond the expertise of the leader, he should be willing to refer
the soldier to the proper expert or agency. After
arranging a meeting for a soldier for professional counseling the leader's work is not fin-

FM 22-100

ished. He must question the person to see if he
has reached a solution for his problem. He may
work with the professional counselor, giving
a~isistance where appropriate.
Career counseling is that which informs men
concerning a career in the Army. Leaders
should counsel as necessary and appropriate to
supplement the work of their unit career counselors. Career counseling is not intended to
replace or be combined with any other form of
counseling.
APPROACHES TO COUNSELING

Successful counseling calls for the sensitive
and flexible use of a variety of interviewing
techniques by the leader. It is not enough to use
proper English or read a number of points for
improvement from a list. The counselor's objective is to influence the course of the interview so
as to motivate the counselee to participate in a
way most likely to bring about understanding
by both parties.

by helping him examine the problem logically
and to develop a feasible solution. The nondirective counselor takes the approach that the
person with a problem must take full responsibility for solving the problem, and the counselor
aids him in its solution only by helping him to
remove self-constructed obstacles. With the nondirective approach, the man with the problem
initiates the counseling relationship. The counselor listens to his problem, helps him to gain
insight, and provides information as he
requests it. Throughout the relationship, the
counselor gives the counselee the feeling that he
has found a fellow, human being who is interested in trying to understand him and is concerned with helping him to find a solution to
adjust to a troublesome situation.
The nondirective counselor must be a good listener. Nondirective counseling should be used
in situations when a man is dissatisfied with
his job, request career guidance, or is having
financial difficulties.

DIRECTIVE APPROACH

ELECTIC APPROACH

There are three approaches which may be used.
The first of these is directive .counseling. The
best way for the leader to decide whether or not
to be directive is to determine where the information necessary to solve the person's problems
is to be found. If that information is in
manuals, SOPs, special materials or if the facts
are in the leader's mind, the directive approach
is used. In the directive counseling approach,
the leader may give advice and make certain
decisions such as the type of information that
would be meaningful to the counselee. In directive counseling, the leader can take the required
action up to the actual decision. The decision is
always more satisfactory when the counselee
reaches it himself. Leaders may seek out the
person who needs counseling in the directive
approach. However, they should avoid giving
advice and direction in a way that hinders the
subordinate in his self-expression and the development of his own self-reliance. Directive
counseling should be used for things such as
unsatisfactory performance and letters of indebtedness. This approach is used most often in
performance counseling.

The last approach, the electic approach, combines the directive and nondirective approaches to assist a person to make the proper
adjustments or to solve his own problems as
efficiently as possible. The counselor may be

NONDIRECTIVE APPROACH

If the information is not in manuals, SOPs, or
in the leader's mind, it probably concerns a
personal matter. In this instance, the nondirective approach should be used. You should persuade the counselee to solve his own problem
with your help and guidance. This can be done
12-3

FM 22-100

more directive initially, until the counselee
"opens up." He then could resort to being nondirective and hear the counselee out by being a
good listener, commenting and responding
where necessary. Just as in the other ap-.
proaches, the counselor encourages the counselee to make the final decision and .take
necessary .action.
Not all soldiers will ask for help. Therefore, the
leader must know his men well enough to recognize their need for assistance. Some indications
of silent cries for help that Ieaders should learn
to recognize and answer are1. A good performer begins to perform below
par consistently.
2. A normally attentive man suddenly
displays a lack. of attentiveness or concentration.
3. A moderate drinker begins to drink excessively.
4. A man is involved in dellberate acts of
misconduct or refuses to follow instructions.
5. A man lingers after a meeting . to talk,
posing such questions as, "What if a person has
a problem?"
Counseling is conducted for many reasons such
as: factfinding; informing; and altering opinions, feelings, and behavior. The counseling
interview is really nothing more than a communicating process in which a leader interviews a
person to find out something from him, to tell
him something, or . to effect some· change in
him. It is quite possible~ven usual-for an
interview to have more than one purpose, but
ordinarily, one purpose will predominate. ·
PREPARATION FOR COUNSELING

Up to this time we have been talking about the
leader and what he should be and do during the
counseling interview. However, prior to conductingthe counseling interview, he will have to
make the proper· preparation. When preparing
for the counseling interview, the leader should
consider advance notification, allotment of
time, plan of action for conduct of the interview,
physical setting, and the general atmosphere.
Whenever possible, the counselee should be notified in advance of the time of the interview.
This permits him to think about his performance, or his problem, and to be prepared to
discuss it, Sufficient time should be allotted for
the interview so that neither the counselor nor
the counselee will feel rushed. While a large
amount of work to be accomplished may place
restrictions on the amount of time available, try
12-4

to allow sufficient time. No interview can be a
success if the participants feel rushed.
A general plan of action for the conduct of the
interview should be developed. However, since
flexibility is imperative in counseling, a highly
detailed plan is not advised. For a general
interviewing plan, the leader must have his
objective clearly in mind. He should review all
background information so that he can develop
a general plan for conducting the interview.
This will primarily involve deciding upon the
sequence of that which he wishes to discuss and·
the point which he wishes to make about each
item.
The place where the interview is to be conducted
is also very important. An uncomfortable or
disturbing locr:1.tion causes distractions and re.duces motivation of the counselee to actively
participate .in the interview. Privacy is also
essential, both .to prevent distractions and to
maintain· a confidential atmosphere.
The leader should endeavor to create an informal atmosphere. This means that the counselee should be allowed to sit, smoke, and freely
discuss the it.ems with the leader. High levels of
formality are not conducive to. good motivation
and openness during the interview.
CONDUCTING THE INTERVIEW

Having properly prepared for the interview, the
next step is to interview the man in question.
The opening few minutes are probably the most
critical phase of the interview because in this
time the stage is set and the atmosphere created
for the entire interview.. Accol'dingly, an objective of the leader during th.~ opening phase
should be to establish a relatiOnship with the
counselee in which both feel at ease. From the
outset, strive to relieve any tension. This can be
done by showing acceptance of the counselee,
letting him feel his views are important, and
that he is not forced to discuss them. The objectives of the interview can be explained at this
time and the counselee should be drawn into the
discussion quickly.
In the discussion, the leader should guide the
interview. This should be done inconspicuously.
For example, without being too forceful, he can
invite the counselee back from detours, escapes,
fruitless conversation, etc., by the use of brief
questions.
In almost every instance, the counselee should
be given a way to "save face." This means that
the leader should not push the counselee into a
position from which he cannot retreat without

FM 22-100

embarrassment. This point is important because an assault upon the personal integrity of
the counselee drastically reduces his motivation. Under no circumstances should the counselor allow himself to be trapped into an
argument with the person being counseled.
Sometimes the discussion may slow down; however, momentum can be revived by keeping the
purposes of counseling in mind and by asking
questions. The questions asked should be
adapted to the purpose of the counseling session; so no one set of questions will do for every
interview. Certain types of questions can be
used to advantage in almost all interviews or
counseling sessions. The "W" questions, WHO,
WHAT,·WHERE, WHEN, WHY are extremely
valuable because they fit so many situations.
They are especially useful in getting detailed
answers and in saving time. Although the "yesno" question may be used to commit the eounselee or to get a better understanding, they
should be used sparingly. The "yes-no" question
must be followed by another question to get
more detailed and useful information.
In trying to motivate the counselee, the.leader is
striving to influence his behayior. Influence
attempts may take many forms and, in the
course of an interview, several or all of the ·
forms may be· used depending upon the course

taken by the interview and by the behavior of
the eounselee during the interview. Some of the
forms of influence which may be used are:
mapping alternatives, recommending, advising,
persuading, urging, commanding, and threatening.
When it is apparent that the purpose of.the
interview has been accomplished,· steps should
be taken to close the conversation and dismiss
the counselee in graceful manner and in a
friendly atmosphere. The interview shoµld be
closed when all points have been covered, when
the counselee has had ample time to understand, and when the conversation is at a natural stopping point. If any action is to be taken
by the counselor such as to submit a report,
make a record of the session, etc., the counselee
should be so informed. If time is critical and the
counselee appears to want to continue a general
discussion of his situation, it may be suggested
that the interview ean be continued later at a
mutually convenient time. Even though the
counseling interview is over, that does not mean
that the job is over. Certain follow-Up actions
must be taken.
The leader must continue. to evaluate performance andhe inust check.to insure the personal
problems
longer exist. If problems still exist,
further· counseling is necessary.

no

SUMMARY

All leaders must be good counselors. Their objectives are to reinforce
good behavior or to help men who have problems to help themselves,
Accomplishment of this task requires an understanding and the application of the proper techniques and approaches to the various types of
counseling.

12-5

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 13

Challenge and opportunity characterize the role
of the Army leader. He is challenged by the
scope and diversity of his assignments and
finds continuing opportunity to assume responsibility and develop resourcefulness. Furthermore, the leader finds an urgent need to use all
of his personal resources in perhaps the most
demanding of all tasks-the leadership of men.
Previous chapters have discussed the fundamentals of leadership and the personal standards required of the leader. Aspects of
individual and group behavior were discussed
to make the leader aware of the interaction
between himself and his men and between the
members of his unit. Also, some of the processes

of leadership were discussed which require
direct leader action. The intent of this chapter
is to bring the leader into focus and relate his
role to all that was previously presented.
COMMAND EFFECTIVENESS

Influence sets leadership apart from other
command functions such as management which
deals with the use of all available resources.
Although the effect upon personnel must be
considered regardless of the command function,
leadership is the only one that is directly and
fundamentally concerned with influencing men
and organizations.
The effectiveness of the leadership process can
13-1

FM 22-100

be judged only in terms of the results obtained.
Accordingly, each leadership act, each leadership decision, and each consideration of a leadership problem should have as its primary
consideration its effect on performance. The
ultimate measurement of effective leadership is
the quality of performance demonstrated by the
men, singly and as a unit. Performance as a
measurement requires every action and decision to be compared to the standard of "good
performance." Because a leader is only as good
as the results he gets, he is a failure if he cannot
influence his troops to perform their duties.
LEADING A UNIT

Full use of men requires the organization of
duties and functions so as to get the most
productive performance from their human capabilities. It requites recognition: of men as a
resource having ·individual abilities, limitations, and characteristics ·which require the
same attention and maintenance as any other
resource. It also requires .recognition of the
human ·resource 'as pe9ple<Who have personalities, emotions, ·legal status, and control ove!r
how much and how well they perform. Therefore, men require motivation, satisfaction, rewards, inspiration, and consideration. Failure
to recognize these requirements can cause serious probl~ms and an ineffective unit. ·
LEADING SUBORDINATES

The necessity for recognizing the individuality
of subordinates takes nothing away from the
leader. He must still provide gUidance, make
decisions, see that plans are made, see that
subordinate performance is satisfactory, and so
on. However, he is responsible for seeing that
work gets done, rather than doing it himself.
He, therefore, often faces the problem of relations between himself and his subordinates. He .
must create a relationship that will not damage,
but will contribute to the main effort of mission
accomplishment. This requires recognition of
individuality in each of his men and using this
knowledge in exercising leadership.
Accomplishment of missions through the actions of others requires a leader to know how to
communicate with his men, how to get his men
to communicate with him, how to transform
information into decisions, and how to convert
his decisions into action.
The leader must create good working conditions, not with the sole idea of making his men
"feel happy," but so that he can best accomplish
the mission. Undoubtedly, creating a good
working climate takes time, energy, and pati13-2

ence. In fact, if the leader does not develop good
working conditions and involve his men in accomplishing the unit mission, the costs in terms
of wrong decisions, wasted talent, personal
frustrations, and inefficiency will be great. The
leader will be most effective if he creates conditions whereby his men are motivated and their
capabilities exploited.
LEADERSHIP STYLES

Styles of leadership vary depending on the
leader's personality, his men, and the situation.
Style has long been a topic of discussion and
consideration among men and their leaders
alike. Although it is an interesting topic for
discussion, in the final analysis, the proper
style for any leader is that which helps him lead
best.
Leaders are not restricted to any one stereotyped style of leadership. In fact, one man may,
depending on the situation, use an authoritarian style in one instance and a democratic style
in another.
A completely authoritarian leader reserves
control for himself. A democratic leader in-

FM 22-100

release any control in decisionmaking, they
may not be able to predict the outcome, and
therefore their security may be threatened.
These are but some of the personal variables
that affect the choice of leadership style. If a
leader realizes that these forces, either consciously or unconsciously, influence his style,
he will be better able to understand his actions
and, hopefully, act so as to be a better leader.
The group or unit also influences the leader's
style selection. He must realize that his men,
like himself, have many personal variables that
affect their behavior. Additionally, the size of
the group, the group goals, the group expertise,
and the expectations the group has of the leader
are a few of the group~related factors that the
leader should understand before selecting his
style. The better a leader understands these
factors, the better will be his style.
How much these factors affect the leader's style
selection will depend primarily on the amount
of confidence and respect the leader and subordinates have for each other. If this mutual
confidence and respect is high, then it matters
little what style he selects in a given situation.
volves his men in making a decision, but reserves the decision for himself.
The leader can choose the style of leadership
which will best assist him in mission acce>mplishment. Before the selection is made, however, he must realize that he is responsible for
everything his unit does or fails to do. He
should, therefore, be prepared to adjust his style
depending on the results he gets. His style is
influenced by the many facets. of his personality, value system, confidence in subordinates,
knowledge, and leadership inclinations.
His value system will influence his style selection because if he feels that a leader should
make all decisions, then he will. If he feels that
subordinates should share in making decisions,
h,e will tend to select a style that supports this
value. The degree of confidence in his men will
also influence his style. If he has no confidence
in his men then the leader will probably not
involve them in dE(cisions. Closely associated
with this idea is whether or not the leader feels
he is better qualified, because of his knowledge,
to make the decision. Often he will have more
faith, justifiably or not, in his own abilities.
The leader who is unsure of his ability is more
inclined to be authoritarian than participative.
Authoritarian leaders often feel that if they
13-3

FM 22--100

People usually do not react to variations in a
leader's style or behavior if they respect and
trust him. Wide variations in behavior and
style should, however, be kept to a minimum. If
wide variations continue for a period of time,
confidence and respect may diminish and unit
efficiency will decrease.
In addition to the forces which exist in a leader
and in his men, certain characteristics of each
situation also affect a leader's behavior. Some
of the more critical ones are the Army as a
whole, the unit, the nature of the situation, and
the time available. Let us examine each of these.
Like individuals, organizations have values
and traditions which influence the behavior of
the people who are assigned to them. The leader
who is ne"1lY assigned to a unit quickly finds
that certain kinds of behavior are accepted
while others are not. For example, a leader who
has used a totally authoritarian style of leadership is assigned to an effective company where
the prevalent style is democratic leadership. He
may re-evaluate his style because of his observations and the perception that, because the
company is effective, democratic leadership
works.
Before choosing a style of leadership, the leader
must consider how well his men work together
and the degree of confidence that they have in
13-4

their ability to solve problems. Finally, such
things as cohesiveness, mutual acceptance, and
commonality of purpose will also influence the
group's functioning.
The nature of the problem may also influence
the style the leader will use. He must determine
whether or not his subordinates have the re·
quired knowledge before allowing them to make
a decision. The key question to ask in any case
is, "Have I heard the ideas of everyone who can
make a significant contribution to the solution
of this problem?"
The pressure of time is perhaps the most clearly
felt pressure on the leader. The more he feels the
need for an immediate decision, the more difficult it is to involve other people. In units
which are in a constant state of "crisis" and
"crash projects," one is likely to find leaders
using a high degree of authoritarian leadership
with Uttle involvement of subordinates. When
time presiure' is reduced, however, it becomes
mo~e/ea~ible 2to b~.P,8': subor4.inates in on the
dec1s1<>n,makitl,g pro(!ess.
. ··
These, then, are the principal fol"ces that influence the leader and determine his behavior in
relation to his subordinates. Only after evaluating all of these forces can the leader choose a
style of leadership. In those cases where time is
not critical and men are knowledgeable and
confident of their abilities, the democratic leadership style might be best. In other instances
where time is critical and the leader has· the
knowledge to make the decision, the authoritarian style may be the only choice. Because there
is no one style which is best in all instances, the
leader's style should ideally be that which attains his :immediate goal within the limits facing him.
As he looks .ahead, ho~eve~, he can take a
somewhat different outlook. He is not controlled.
by all of the forces mentioned because he can
look at them as variables over which he has
some control. He can, for example, gain new
skills for himself, train his subordinates, and
provide them with experience in making decisions.
In trying to contrbl these variables, however,
the leader must decide. what he wants to ac~
complish. When free of the pressure of immediate missions, most leaders desire to- ·
• improve subordinate motivation.
• increase subordinate willingness to
accept change.
• improve quality of subordinate performance.

FM ·22-.100

• develop teamwork and morale.
The accomplishment of these long-range objectives is the leader's goal.
SKILLS OF LEADERSHIP

Sound leadership is not based on guesswork or
native ability; its fundamentals can be analyzed and cultivated by most men. In fact, this
manual is based on the belief that intuitive
leadership alone is not sufficient. The leader
can improve his performance through study,
analysis of his own leadership behavior, and
practice.
Taken alone, however, no amount of knowledge
will improve insight and judgment or increase
the ability to act wisely under conditions of
responsibility. A person niay know everything
in this manual and still be a poor leader. There
are no single clear cut answers to most leadership problems. Each situation should be treated
as a new one, requiring imagination, understanding, and skillful action. A leader must be
concerned with evaluating events and finding
appropriate courses of action. If, a leader
exploits the ideas presented in th,is manual,
evaluation of the situation will show him which
direction his actions must take.
··-·'

INDICATORS OF LEAf>,.RSHIP
,
. ; , , Li ; ;
There are four charact~:rJ111tif:}!i: 9f ;~ 1"'11litn~\1~f!~ .
indicate .succesf_\ Qr failure Jn. tll~ ~;ii:~rci,s~ of

military lea<lershiP-:.morale, ai'M1i?Hne, . esprit
de corps, and proficiency. These'iridicators cari
be used as a gauge for measuring a unit's
effectiveness.
Certain factors may have an effect on more
than one of the indicators. For example, a low
delinquency rate might indicate not only good
discipline, but high morale and esprit de corps.
Although discipline, esprit de corps, and proficiency are dependent on the degree of morale
present, all four are of ~qual importance. The
oth,er three depend on morale because it is the
sum total of all the attitudes of the soldier.
Morale is the fertile soil in:which the 'seeds of
discipline, esprit de corps, and proficiency are
sown. Thus, while the leader should strive for
increasing morale, his efforts .must always be
directed toward building all of the indicators of
leadership. The absence of reduction of one
indicator could adversely affect to destroy the
others.
MORALE

Morale is the person's state of mind. It depends
on· his attitude· toward everything that. affects
him-his fellow soldiers, his leaders, Army life

in general, and other things important to him.
Morale is closely .related to the satisfying of
man's needs. If the training, administering,
and fighting of a unit is conducted so that the
man's needs are satisfied, a favorable attitude
will be developed. High morale is a state of mind
which gives the soldier a feeling of confidence
and well-being that enables him to face hardship with courage, endurance, and determination.
The state of morale is constantly changing. The
morale of a unit is a measurement of the
leader's ability.
The leader can measure morale by close observation ·of his men in their daily activities, by
inspections and by talking to his men. Specific
items to note are:
Appearance.
Personal conduct.
Standards of military courtesy.
Personal hygiene.
Use of recreational facilities.
Excessive quarreling.
Ha:r;mful or Jrrespon,sible rumors.
Con~itiQn. .of mes1mln.d q'll.a:rters..
. ,,Qa11e. of.equipmen.t.
1
R·$sfjon.!let ltio 1erdi:.lri! ~nd ·directives.
~

:r 1Job'hrO'fihien<!r.
:' -- ___ ·( -.,_.. >_-_,.-,,,

~-'.~

__, .

· ' _ ;: ·

· Motivation· during training.
Evaluation of administrative reports can
also aid in measuring morale. Particularly valuable are reports which concern:
Arrests, military or civil.
Damage to, or loss of equipment through
carelessness.
Family problems.
Indebtedness.
Malingerers.
Men absent without le ave and deserters.
Requests for transfer.
Self-inflicted wounds.
Sick call rate.
Stragglers.
Reenlistment rates.
ESPRIT DE CORPS

Esprit de corps is the loyalty to, pride in, and
enthusiasm for the unit shown by its.members.
Whereas morale refers to the attitude of the
soldier, esprit de corps is the unit spirit. It is
the common spirit reflected by all members of a
unit and provides group solidarity. It implies
13-5

FM 22-100

devotion and loyalty to the unit and all for
which it stands, and.a deep regard for the unit's
history, traditions, and honor. Esprit de corps
is the unit's personality and expresses the
unit's will to fight and win in spite of seemingly
insurmountable odds. Esprit de corps depends
on the satisfaction the members get from belonging to a unit, their attitudes towards other
members of the unit, and confidence in their
leaders. Evaluation of esprit de corps concerns:
Expressions from the men showing enthusiasm for and pride in their unit.
A good reputation among other units.
A strong competitive.spirit.
Willing participation by the members in
unit activities.
Pride in the traditions and history of the
unit.
Readiness on the part of the men to help one
another.
·
The belief that their unit fs better than any
other unit in the Army.
High reenlistment.rate in.the unit.
DISCIPUNE

Discipline is the individual or group attitude
that insures prompt obedience to orders and
initiation of appropriate action in the absence
of orders.. When achieved in a unit, it is an
attitude that keeps soldiers doing what they are
supposed to do and as they are supposed to do it
through strong inner conviction. Good discipline is constant and functions whether or not
outside pressure or supervision is present. It is
the result of good·training and intelligent leadership that helps soldiers withliltand.the shock of
battle and face difficult situations without faltering. Since success in combat frequently
depends upon unit's or men's immediate positive response, discipline demanded in the Army
is far more exacting than discipline in other
walks of life. Before a man can act resourcefully in the absence of orders, he must have an
understanding of what is to be done and the role
he must play. This requires training. Before he
can respond to orders, he needs the same understanding and ability plus confidence in his
seniors. This requires leadership.
Evaluation of discipline requires the evaluation
of these factors:
Attention to detail.
Harmonioulil relations. between units and
soldiers.
Devotion to duty.
Proper senior-subordinate relationships.
13-6

Proper conduct on and off duty.
Standards of cleanliness, dress, and military courtesy.
Promptness in responding to commands
and directives.
Adherence to the chain of command. ·
Ability· and willingness to perform effectively with little or no supervision.
PROFICIENCY

Proficiency is the technical, tactical, and physical ability of the soldier and the unit to perform
the job or mission. Unit proficiency is the sum
of the skills of all the men in the unit welded
togehter by the leader into a smooth-functioning
team. A unit will attain proficiency when its
leader demands high standards of individual
and group performance. Proficiency results
lara-ely fr.om training. Therefore, much of the
leader"s time must be spent. supervising training'"
Some of the'factors to be considered in evaluating proficiertcy are:
Pers6nal appea:rance and physical condi·
tion of the men.
Appearance and condition of weapons,
equipment and unit area.
Reaction time of the unit under various
situations and conditions.
Professional attitude demonstrated by the
unit and its members.
Troop leading ability of junior leaders.
Promptness and accuracy in disseminating
orders, instru~tions, and information.
Degr~e ()f1;~kill demonstrated when accomplishing task~;
DEVELOPMENT OF THElNDICATORS OF LEADERSHIP

The developrn(lnt of th~ indicators of leadership
is a continuou,s :Process.. If the leader understands the factors .and forces that produce desired results, he will be better able to direct his
efforts along producti.ve lines.
There are certain actions which will aid in the
development of specific indicators. An action
designed to improve one of the indicators of
leadership may also affect the others. Following
are the indicators and some specific steps that
will develop each:
MoraleTe.ach belief in the cause and mission.
Instill in your men confidence in themselves, their leaders, their training, and their
equipment.

FM 22-100

Assist in job satisfaction by carefully considering job assignments.
Keep your men aware of your concern for
and the Army's interest in their physical,
moral, and spiritual welfare, as well as that of
their dependents.
Establish an effective awards program.
Make the men feel they are essential to the
unit.
Recognize the soldier's desire to retain his
individuality and treat him as an individual.
Encourage the strengthening of their ties to
home, family, and religious association.
Esprit de CorpsStart newly assigned men off right by a
reception program including an explanation of
the unit's history, traditions, and present role.
Develop the feeling that the unit must excel.
Recognize and publicize achievements of
the unit and its members.
Make use of ceremonies, symbols, slogans,
and military music.
Use competition to develop teamwork.
Make proper use of decorations and awards.
DisciplineDemonstra te discipline . ~······. yo!lir .own
conduct and example.

Institute a fair and impartial system for
punishment and an equitable distribution of
privileges and rewards.
Strive for mutual confidence and respect
through training.
Encourage and foster the development of
self-discipline among your men.
Be alert to conditions conducive to breaches
of discipline and eliminate them where possible.
ProficiencyThoroughly train your men in their duties.
Emphasize teamwork through the chain of
command.
Establish a sound physical conditioning
program.
Provide for cross-training.
Participate in realistic training exercises.
. Provide men with frequent opportunities to
perform duties of the next higher echelon.
Insure by inspections and training tests
that your command is being developed in accordance with training programs and doctrine
prescribed by higher authority.
Set high standards of performance and insi1t that th~y be met.

SU~RY

An effective leader is one who follows the principles of leadership with
an awareness of the forces which are influencing both his behavior and
that of his men. He understands himself, his men, his job, and the
situation. Understanding, however, is not enough. The effective leader
is also able to evaluate his unit using the indicators of leadership and
act appropriately in light of his awareness. He is one who can assess the
forces that influence his actions and then behave in the manner which
produces the best results.

13-7

FM 22-100

FM 22-100

l)RUG ABUSE/
CHAPTER 14

BACKGROUND
It is often said that we are a "drug-oriented
society." Drugs of all kinds are readily available by prescription or over-the-counter purchase
to anyone who wants them. And, at one time or
another, everyone is a dl'ug user, whether the
drug be caffeine, alcohol, nicotine, aspirin, or
one of the illegal drugs such as LSD or heroin.
The use of the drugs listed above, as well as
many other stimulants, depressants, and euphorics (such as marijuana) is not new. However, the use of illicit drugs and the excessive
use of alcohol has become more prevalent in our
society during the last several years and is a
problem which concerns leaders. Leaders must
recognize the drug abuse problem, and understand that drug usage itself is generally not the
underlying problem. It is a symptom of the
emotional or physical problems of the user or a
reflection of the users environment. However, it
is a fact that l!rug abuse is a problem among
our soldiers and today's leaders are faced with
the challenge of dealing with drug related
problems.
In the past, it was customary for social scientists to "type" drug abusers into groups which
seemed to be.st fit their ethnic or economic
backgrounds. Heroin and marijuana were used
by the underprivileged and by criminals. Alco-

ho! was abused by the residents of "Skidrow"
and eccentrics, whlle the stimulants and depressants were generally abused by the middleclass adult u:nder the guise of medical need.
While this stereotyping still exists, it is more
incorrect now than before. The heroin abuser
may be an executive's son. He inay wear levis or
Army greens, long or short hair. The alcohol or
stimulant abuser might be a student, an athletic
hero, or a leader in the Army.

WHY DRUGS?
Some people who rely on drugs to get them
through the day believe that their dependence
on them is •caused by their environment. To
them, drugs are the •olution to their problems.
The decision to become drug abusers was not
well thought out, but was based on their attitudes and emotions of the moment. Contrary to
what some people believe, this decision is
rarely, if ever, made with criminal intent.
Therefore, we must keep in mind that it is a
very personal situation, and we should not
attempt to categorize all drug abusers into any
specific groups or types of people. Each case
must be considered individually.
The impulse to try something to replace boredom, subdue pain, or reduce frustration is high
among all men. Like the prehistoric men who
14-1

FM 22-100

a good feeling. Indirect reasons may lie somewhere within these basic reasons.
We have already identified man's impulse to
seek new ways to make himself feel better. The
desire for a feeHng of well-being, either real or
chemically induced, runs high in humans. So
high, in fact, that it is partially responsible for
our changing values. One need only open his
newspaper or turn on the television or radio to
be told of the virtues of innumerable drugs. This
has led to a casual acceptance of drugs as a
means with which to cure even the most minor
physical disturbances. Some prominent sociolo·
gists feel that the drug abuse problem among
young people is more an acknowledgment of
how influential the older generation has been
than a revolt against society.

got their "highs" Crom fermented berries, or the
people who sucked opium lozenges nearly 6,000
years ago, today's man seeks new ways to make
himself feel better.
People who abuse drugs may be classified in
three groups: experimenter, user, and drug de·
pendent. The experimenter may be simply try·
ing to find out what effects drugs will have on
him. This person may try one or more drugs a
few times and never use them again. Or, he may
continue and become a member of the next
group-the user.
The user is one who takes drugs more often
than the experimenter. His abuse of one or more
drugs will be of a more lasting nature and
probably (or deeper and more continuing reasons. The chances of this person becoming dependent l.ncrease as he continues to use the
drugs.
The user finally reaches the stage where he is
physically or mentally dependent on drugs. The
drug-dependent person exhibits a behavioral
pattern characterized by overwhelming involvement with the procurement and use of drugs.
People use drugs for many reasons: peer group
pressure, an escape from the problems of life,
curiosity, or a belief that the drug will bring on
14-2

However, we should not completely discount
any theory about revolt, either. It is clear that
some, particularly younger people, may use
drugs initially to shock the "establishment." Yet
drugs can also be the basis of the more profound
rebellion against established cultural values.
Here, drug use becomes an alternative to the
symbols of these established values, such as
cocktail parties and martinis at lunch. To some
people, our super-technology that mass-produces virtually everything represents a cold
and uncaring society where people are secon·
dary to bigger and better machines. Drug abuse

FM 22-100

to some is a convenient way of experimenting
with alternate customs and values when the
existing ones are no longer acceptable.
Some drug miers claim that boredom caused
them to start, and their rebellion created new
and varied ways to spend time and money.
Social experts suggest that because young peo·
pie generally mature faster now than in the
past, the activities that schools and communities have traditionally provided are no longer
denrnnding enough to keep their attention. This
concerns us as leaders because we must provide
recreation activities for our men. All too often,
instead of recreation or sports, work is created.
This "make work" is rarely related to a man's
job and may cause frustration. The need for
challenging and interesting work should be a
primary consideration of any supervisor. The
feeling of not working toward some goal leaves
an emptiness which needs to be filled; and
sometimes it is filled-by drugs.
Another reason why people turn to drug abuse
may be a desire to escape from the realities of
daily life. Because it is usually manifested by a
deeper desire to flee the more difficult problems
of character or emotion, this reason may be the
most dangerous one. Many psychologists agree
that most people who become dependent upon
drugs, or who are consistently heavy users, are
from this group. The escape-prone personalities
are usually depressed and mistrustful of their
surroundings. In many cases, they had been
seriously troubled long before they started taking drugs. In a highly mobile society where
people are constantly confronted with rapidly
changing settings and with new sets of values, a
disturbed person can become even more con·
fused. The military service requires extensive
change in a person's way of life and can, for
some, be a powerful stimulus toward further
frustration. Depending on the new soldier's
background, he meets his new responsibilities
and life styles with varying degrees of diffi·
culty. Here again, the leader must identify his
soldier's problems and reduce the dissatisfiers,
as discussed in chapter 8, which cause them.
Many of those in the experimenter and early
user stages take drugs simply because they
think it is fun. Keep this reason in mind because it offers a useful contrast to the more
traditional ideas on the subject. Surely if it
weren't fun (that is, if it didn't offer an enjoyable feeling or experience to the user) people
would not start using drugs. But, this idea still
does not answer the questions as to why drugs
are the vehicle of the "fun" generation. The
answer is interrelated with some of the ideas

already discussed and in the fact that users are
simply bored with existing alternatives. They
are no longer "turned-on" by what society has
traditionally offered.
All these reasons, along with many others, lead
to the conclusion that drug abuse is at least
partially caused by conditions within our society. It is no longer sufficient or reasonable to
speak of drug abusers in terms of"weak personalities" who are solely at fault for their problem.
Before we can begin to reach the problem on an
individual basis, it must first be dealt with at
the group or community level. From there we
may work with ways to prevent people from
becoming users. We need to offer new alternatives, to alter existing environmental conditions, and to find new directions in which to
motivate our soldiers.
WHAT THE LEADER CAN DO

In order to communicate and deal with his men,
the leader must first recognize the highly emotional and personal relationship the user or
addict may have with his drug. The leader must
accept the fact that he is sometimes competing
with drugs for his subordinate's attention. Sim·
ply telling him not to use illegal drugs is like

14-3

FM 22-100

ordering your son not to smoke cigarettes or
drink.alcohol when he sees his peers and adults
doing It. It may be difficult ~r him to com·
prehend any immediate danger by doing so
himself. After all, these drugs are both legal and
socially acceptable. For the pel'l!on who already
has developed habits of smoking or drinking,
the idea of quitting may seem unthinkable; the
act of quitting-impossible. Psychological dependence on alcohol and nicotine is all too
common. Although these examples may seem
"farfetched," they are essentially the same
problems encountered when more dangerous
drugs are abused. The difference is that the
difficulty In quitting the other drugs may be
tenfold that of quitting smoking or drinking.
This "competition" we speak of need not occur
in the form of active aggression against drug
abuse but should be reflected in the leader's
concern for the welfare of his men."The leader
who by his actions shows tMs collcern. wf!Pbl!
more successful in· eliminating.the•dissalttsfiers·
which often are•at the root of·dTug abuse. By'
"showing concern". "We·. ·mean simply: .insulting
that when a soldier's problem .is identified, ·the
leader partiejpates in solving it. Examples •of
this are getting pay for a soldier who has not
been paid, or giving a man a pass or leave to
solve problems at home. By doing these things,
the leader has in part altered the environment
and Is in a better position to influence his
soldiers' alternatives .to drug usage.
By "alternatives" we mean any activity which
substitutes for the essential desire or need' to
use drugs. These substitute.a range from a more
thorough involvement in everyday duties. 0n t'he
one hand, to religious o.r recreational activities
on the other. Activities you select or encourage
shbuld have some common characteristics, They
must be relevant and challenging, and must
give the soldier an opportunity to develop favorable and lasting relationships with other persons. In niany cases, these requirements can be
met ·J:iy simply making existing activities more
ava!l'a'ble.an<facceptable to the soldiers. A company comm1>nder can do this by making dayroo!ll:> and me;ss ha11 facilities mor.e enjoyable
and usefu!i• Another way is to organize athletic
act.1-vtties j?!:.•\eam projects which benefit Elll
partidpants; This may be done by squad
le&ders or plat.ooP. sergeants. Activities Qf this
sort may be w$t.al11lish.e(I. by the sm.'all-unit leader
and offer tl'!"·?~llt,ailli~ies his men. n~ed for
Interesting_ pai'ti'<l!)1Mion with their' peer
groups. The'\\'111iu1~hiait be mon! invo'i;yeinent in
wholesom·e l!le.tf:V.!till•1i'b•y'the ·s0;idier and Jess
need for d2'ugs. There altl7'huro~rou'll .possibilities open to the concerned and resoureeful
14-4

leader. After the leader has provided the alternatives, the next step to take in preventing drug
abuse is to educate all soldiers in the medical,
legal, and moral Implications of drug abuse.
Toward this end, the leader must first educate
himself on the subject so that he can Inform his
men.

1n developing a good drug <iducation program,
see that It is characterlzed ,by objectivity and
integrity, qualified Instructors, current information, and a specific target audience. These
characteristics will be discussed separately.
By "objectivity and integrity" we mean the use
of factual-not emotional-information. The re·
quirement for this is made clear upon examinatio.n of s·ome past drug education programs
which were characterized by incorrect information, the use of"scare tactics," and an exaggeration 9f facts,. Programs of this .type caused the
audiences to realize that the Information was
incorrect and con~lude that the instructors did
not know \iv list' th~y were ialking about. This
lack of'li!tegrlty ifolltrlbuted to the mistrust the
young' people had' for what·appeared to be an
untruthful adult 'society. More critical was the
fact that many who did not believe what they
were told, abused dangerous drugs as a form of
rebellion against adult society.
It is unreasonal:He to expect all leaders to be
qualified to instruct in all subjects; however,
there are several agencies that can assist. For
example, a doctor is a logical person to teach
the medical aspects of d'rUg abuse, while a
chaplain i~ better qualified to discuss the moral
impHcatlons. By using speclaUsts to assist
them, leaders' can present all' aspects of drug
abuse while establll;ilii'ng a high degree of credibility with the .aulllence.
·
·
Using instructors. like .thi[; .. helps us to make
sure that the Information ,being presented is
current. This is ,important .b11cause. new information on drugs an.d their effects Is constantly
being published. Furtherl!lol'e, the laws pertain·
ingto the use of drugs are $.u,bject to change.
If the unit drug education program has these
first three characteristics, we can be sure that
an environment of mutual trust will develop
between the leader and his men. However, be·
cause of the value differences between men and
between groups, the approach will vary according to the audience. We cannot mainta.in an
atmosphere of free and open discussion in a
drug education class if the audience consists of
young privates and senior. noncommissioned
officers. Leaders should recognize the value dif·
ferences and 'vary their·techniques with each
group. The leader may wish to include commis·

FM 22-100

sioned and noncommissioned officers in one
group and the lower ranking enlisted men in
another. This clears the way for more open
discussion and insures that each group learns
what is most important to them.
Another characteristic of the education
program-continuous exposure-means that
the educational process must be continued
beyond the classroom, in the daily activities of
the soldier. This means more than simply placing antidrug posters throughout the unit area.
Continuous education includes the frequent,
open exchange of information and ideas con·
cerning the problems between leaders and subordinates. The key factor with respect to drug
abuse is that the information must be based on
factual knowledge of the problems and a mutual
respect for the exchange of ideas.

When a solid educational base has been established, it Is possible for a leader to implement
his programs of enforcement and rehabilitation
with a greater probability of success. Knowing
the facts of drug abuse welJ prepares the leader
to evaluate and act on the problems in his unit.
The need for up-to-date information pertaining
to drugs has been stated throughout this
chapter. However, a discussion of specific information has been avoided since the laws, policies, and other pertinent information are
changing. As more medical.inJ-0.rmation be·
comes available and as social attitudes change,
there is a constant need to update our knowledge. The leader should keep himself and his
men .well informed on current aspects of the
programs at their disposal. This is the basic
ingredient for a leader to implement his own
policies and programs.

~I ;

I

'!

iI
'

i

I
'

!

SUMMARY
This has been a discussion of one of our contemporary human
problems. Drug abuse is an indicator of deeper individual and group
problems of our time. The nature of the11e pr.oblems requ,ires that each
occurrence of drug abuse be h;andled ~,l·llili inqJ.vtiiua:l b,i1,~i&. T,h-ere are
no standard solutioM .t.o,d~''·a~u. se
prob.l.1e.
'.·.Ml
.. d·
c1tn.·"'.'.ff.er n1>
single answer to q·11e"ions,;ii~ch: as.1 " w do~ . ~:
~el"· ~e
can reduce the drug problerli l)y ere Ing ant', ... ! roni
ro£·n1utual
understanding and mutual trU'llt.

··fi•I-

'.;

It

i
14-5

Iil\

Ii

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 15

THE CHALi.ENGE

HISTORICAL CONTRIBUTIONS

The problem of race relations is a major issue
facing leaers today. Soldiers from all walks of
life, various geographical areas, and numerous
racial and ethnic backgrounds bring their
problems and prejudices with them when they
enter the Army. The military leader's challenge
is to direct members of this diverse group in a
way that will cause them to work as a team. It is
not an easy task, but certainly one that can be
accomplished through informed, fair, and impartial leadership.

Each minority group-whether Black, Chicano,
Puerto Rican, Indian, or Oriental-has made
significant contributions to the development of
our country from its earliest days. Our diversi·
fied American culture has benefited from the
rich historical and cultural backgrounds of
each minority group. It is important that
leaders know something of the background, contributions, and cultures of these diverse groups
in order to apply the leadership principle"Know your men and look out for their welfare."

15-1

FM 22-100

tory students tend to disbelieve. This disbelief
sometimes even turns into anger and results in
the feeling that minorities are attempting to
change history. The contributions of minority
groups to American his• ory are currently being
published for the first time. Historical records
have established that minority groups' soldiers
have fought bravely in every American
conflict-from Bunker Hill in the Revolutionary War to Hamburger Hill in Vietnam.

Minority contributions occur in a variety of
fields ranging from science and technology to
creative work in art, music, and literature. This
tends to dispel some common false notionsthat minorities are stupid, lazy, and uninterested in education.
Unfortunately, this is often one of society's
view$ of minorities. Occasionally, in the past,
when one of these minority persons would excel
and become recognized by the public, his
succHss was considered a result of his adoption
of the white man's system and life. style. This
notion has also occurred in recent years whenever black athletes, oriental politicians, and
Mexican businessmen, for example, have become public figures. Minority race personalities, however, do not often separate themselves
from their heritage. A study of current literature and public media reveals that contributions and accomplishments of minority groups
are more readily recorded and appreciated today.
When presented with a historical fact such as,
"Matthew Henson, a black explorer and a
member of Admiral Peary's famous expedition,
was the first man to reach the North Pole, not
Admiral Peary himself," 1 conventional-his1 Bergman, Mort N. and Peter M., The Chronological His~
tory of the Negro in America. New York: The New American

Library, 1969,

15-2

Specific accounts may be cited of minority
group soldiers who fought bravely even though
they were subjected to discrimination. For example, during the Civil War, the 54th and 55th
Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry Regiments
(black units), fought for 18 months without pay
because the pay scale offered was unequal to
that of white regiments. The 9th and 10th Cavalry Regiments (black units) were instrumental
in settling the West. Listed among the accomplishments of these cavalry regiments are the
establishment of what is now Fort Bliss, at El
Paso, Texas, and the participation in Teddy
Roosevelt's "Rough Rider" charge up San Juan
Hill. Through the efforts of both black and white
regiments, the battle was carried that day. 1
During World War II, Cherokee and Navajo

FM 22-100

Indians served as radio-telephone operators
and spoke their native language in the clear
without concern about enemy intelligence
efforts to monitor radio traffic. The enemy did
not understand the messages. Among the
soldiers who raised the flag at Iwo Jima was an
American Indian. Another minority group demanded and received permission to form their
own combat unit to prove their loyalty to the
United States. This unit, the Japanese-American 442nd Regimental Combat Team, fought
heroically during World War II.• These are a
few of many examples of how minority groups
have stepped forward to take.their place within
the military ranks, while continuing to suffer
varying forms of racial discrimination.
WHY PREJU01CE?

Why is the!'!' still discrimination in a country
where all people ·Supposedly have equal opportunity? You might ask yourself, "Am I prejudiced?" If we stopped and thought for a
moment, proba·bly each of us would admit that
we are indeed ·prejudiced a·vout something.
When we think that a:H Ohinese are sneaky, ai11
black people· are l1,1>~y. or aJl:Jltali11ns·ai<e gangsters, a·re we not .'prej11.1.<di<re1f! ;Pre'j.udiel!i<is de·
fined as "a-n. i1rl'll.iio'!lahat'ilit'l!hl)lfi< lw$illd'11t<y
directed ag.ainst. a11 Jniliy1.aua1, a. ~~o·P·ill··1•.. a. r1¥¢il
or ~~e!r •uP\>O,l''flv ~~~~~Jir~: ,.,f~\i; ~ii,d;S
def1n1t1on,. most P,e~1~'~,R'i'l4'.l}f}?J'Jq ,i>f}i,~,t~~t
they are prejudiee8,in 1 ~~}l'le,'.IY~Y·. . ,, ,, .,. "'":
Prejudice can be•ov•tn•cim:re•by•learn~ftil'the facts
and applying a sound reasoning process; This
means that lea!ders must know more about their
men than just their names and ranks. This
knowledge must not be based on general unfounded opinions about the race or ethnic origin l>f the men, but on facts about each man.
Leaders must know their men's values, attitudes, how they came to bethe way they are, and
what they want to be. Furthermore, leaders
must be prepared to detect and eva:lua<te warnings of possi>bie unrest that may •stem· from
raciBll prdMern!s in thei.i' units and to take ac'
tion to eli'minate the c!auses. ·
SOME REASONS FOR it.\Cli<i.'T~NSION'
Racial tensio'n in ~· uhit I~ biten the result of
poor leadership. The t'oll'oWl'nir' items are major
reasons for racial tensfo'n i'!f a uriit. ··
'
1, 'Insensitive lead~~ship. ··
2. Not u~derstan1titig the ,thrµ~t for. racial
identity in a unit.
··
· · · ··
. S. Racial prejudfoe and '~nlciiminat!On.
-. ·'

1 ~otoke._Wflt

·)'•

·-;,

'

Bill., NitnJ'{,: The Quiet Am,to•icana. N;ew )!"ork:
Wlll!atn Morrow and co:, Inc., 1969.
·

4. Unfair administration of rewards and
punishment, promotions, .and duties. • ·
5. Racial militancy and reactions to It.
6. Limited recognition and awareness of
minorities.
· · 7. The absence of intergroup relations.
8. Failure of the leader to properly In vestigate and act >on coniplain·ts of either the major·
ity or minority soldiers.
...
9. Use of "the accusations of discrimination" by minority groups as a crutch.
Each leader must know the effect that his ac·
tions and comments have on his men and must
avoid racial prejudice and discrlmiiclation. For
example, if the leader ne.fers to his Via ck
soldiers as "Negro" or "colored," some may be
offended. In most cases young black soldiers
prefer to be called blacks, while other black
soldiers might prefer to be called Negro.
Soldiers of oth<;lr groupq. are also sensitive to
being called by other than their correc.t names.
Using the terms "jap," uwetback/' "niex, 0 "spic,"
"honkl~;"'or "whitey" are expressiohs of prejudice which should .not be allowed.
~-

.'···;~

Ri\CI~~ ~~,trt:y ·, ~; .
Thei;,e ·i;:,{I~. lfu'en a growing sPirit of unrest
"~i ·l\_a.if.*····faM.rM~r\l:ip~.ri· 11uding.
both min'<n.·1~\i' S\'d "\W dill'l1~ 'tlHi a~,
s.i~ck ow et
b'rdwJli~ ''r;''li d''rill!jp'OWl!r ii't'e' exan&1.;s of
ol.'PI)ill!atfona1 mov,em11I!ts th11t ti.ave been mis·
understoad. Many min(lrity,group soldiers have
llve.d a life 9f suppression. Therefore, the
c urre•nt attitude of some minority-group
member;s is that they have failed, so they felt
that they should t.urn to more militant efforts.
Some actions by minority groups to show racial
pride and a new thrust for racial identity have
been misin,terpr.eted by members of other
groups .as threats to their security, and have
stimulated adverse reactions. For example, the
rebel flag Is viewed as a threat vy some blacks,
and the "power salutes" are viewed as a threat
vy some· white.a. Rael-ally oriented militant actions by. •any. group should not be allowed since
they can lead to violent confrontations.

c

The young soldier of today accepts little without
pr(lof., ,'.\'hi~ lack. of trust carries over to his
attitu\ies ~oward.the chain of command. He may
refus11 t,o .trust a man me.rely because that.man
is su.p;;..ripr t 0. him in ran.k. Leaders must sl\ow
young spldiers th;at they are prof.essiO'nally
C!!Jll·pe.tent, willing,, and cap.able .of assisting
them In solving,.their pr.oblems. It ·ll. ,pr,oblem
arises that a. leader cannot solve, it 'should ve
referrE!d 'up the ehairi' of colllrnand to someone

fM 22-100

fare of minority soldiers and do not listen to or
investigate their complaints.
2. Minority group efforts to achieve identity
in dress, music, and symbolism are not understood.
8. Objectionable racial terms such as "boy,"
"nigger/' .. whitey/t "wetback," "Spic," etc., are
used.
4. Minority group soldiers are likely to be
punished more severely than whites for similar
offenses.
5. Men who speak out for or against equality are harassed, regarded with suspicion, or
transferred.
COMMUNICATIONS-A MUST

To promote mutual understanding, the leader
must first realize that, under normal conditions, there are problems of communication
witliin the chain of command. The leader should
deal with these filte:rs, barriers, and breakdowns. The problems are complicated, however,
when minority soldle:t"S lose their trust in their
leaders. If lateral and vertical communication
is effective in both the formal and informal
channels, an understanding can be fostered
between soldiers which will reduce racial tension.
who can solve it. In this way, trust and respect
can be gained and racial tension prevented.
Some effects of racial tensions are polarization,
antagonism, and disciplinary problems. For example, antagonism may be evidenced by name
calling or in fights between soldiers of different
races. Once racial problems such. as these begin
in a unit, its leaders are faced with ·additional
disciplinary problems. Racial tension may take
the form of violence in one way or another.
Effective communication up and down the
chain of command will provide warning of potential racial problems.
MOST FREQUENT COMPLAINTS

Most racial problems in the Army are caused by
a lack of understanding of the other man's
position. On all the Army posts surveyed to
determine the reasons for racial problems there
was one complaint which stood out above the
rest. It concerned a lack of communication
between majority and minority group soldiers
at the lower levels and between all young
soldiers and their leaders. This Jack of communication indicates that leaders are not aware
that a problem exists. Some other complaints
frequently voiced by soldiers are1. Leaders are not concerned with the we!15-4

The troops must also be convi11ced that fair and
impartial treatment
be given to all soldiers.
The leader must see.that his men understand
what standards are expected of them and what
the result will be if they fail to measure up.
Rewards and punishme:nt must be applied
fairly to produce consistent results for all
soldiers. For e:x;ample, Private Smith, white,
and Private Gonzales, a chlcano, both go
AWOL; Gonzales for the third time and Smith
for the first time. Gonzales' punishment is more
severe than Smith's. Misinterpretation may
result if members of the unit are not made
aware of why Gonzales was punished more severely. Holding troop Information sessions and
posting the actions on the unit bulletin boards
will enable members of the unit to see that the
punishment was appropriate in each case.

will

A leader who is alerted by the situations which
have been discussed can recognize and solve
racial problems at his level. He does this
through personal involvement with his
command so that prompt action can be initiated
when tell-tale signs appear.
INDICATORS Of RACIAL TENSION

What are some indicators of racial tension that
you might find In a unit? One may be an

FM 22~100

indifferent response of minority soldiers to
white leaders or an indifferent respense of
white soldiers to minority leaders. This is often
caused by the misinterpretation of a leader's
actions by both minority and majority groups.
These misinterpretations may be aggravated by
racial incidents occurring on and off post.
Whatever the cause, the leader must find out
why this indifference has developed and take
immediate action to resolve the problem.
FAIR AND IMPARTIAL LEADERSHIP

A keynote of good leadership is fair and equal
treatment. The leader's policies and his administering of these policies must be fair and equal
for all his soldiers. For example, a leader may
have a fairly administered open-door policy for
his unit, but the judgment decisions he makes
may appear unequal. One case in point is the
leader who had announced that no one would be
excused during an upcoming field exercise
without his personal approval, because of a
critical shortage of men. After the unit had been
in the field for a week, several blaek soldiers
requested permission to return to garrison to
participate in post religious ceren:lofides com·
memorating th~ hWth of Martin Lu~~~r King.
Th~ leade~ grl!(lji~ji\' the '.t\equest. Laf~~~everal
white soldier. s,.~.i!llil;did notk.now t.. h·.e· E·on th.e.
black soldiers. <hitdi.$iltl) retu~1 ·ti;i? · rison~
began to complain of bl'ack fav~~r ..·on the
part of the leader. Because the leaiferfailed to
fully inform the members of the unit, the pofahtial for racial unrest developed. The leader
could have prevented this misunderstanding if
he had explained the facts and reasons for his
action. He could have explained to the unit the
importance most blacks attach to the legacy of
Dr. Martin Luther King. He could also have
explained that he would have honored similar
requests for other racial or religious groups
under similar circumstances.
POLARIZATION

Racial polarization in informal gathering
places such as dayrooms, dining areas, and
clubs is a frequent occurrence. Soldiers who do
not speak English often gather in a group during their off-d.uty hours. These actions alone
are not necessarily inqic!l.t.Prs. of unrest within
a unit. There is a natural te~i;l.epcy on th.e part
of every man to seek those.with whom he shares
something in common, sue.~, as r~ee, .aiie, rank,
language, or cultural simllarities. 'l'he leader
should recognize thesE! tendencies, .but be alert
to the foct that in these same areas unrest may
develop.

GROUPING

One such case occurred in a unit where most of
the minority group soldiers frequented one onpost club. This club eventually became known
as a "soul club" and consequently received llttle
patronage from white soldiers. This situation
was brought to the attention of the leader, who
overreacted by attempting to reverse the situa·
tion. In doing so, he caused tempers to flare,
and soldiers began to complain about the
leader's attempt to deny them the right to social·
ize in the club oft.heir choice. This problem was
not caused by racial grouping, but incorrect
analysis of the situation by the .leader. Realiz·
ing there is a difference in cultural likes and
dislikes as previously discussed, the leader
should not become alarmed when minority
soldiers group together. lt is only when one
group begins to patronize a place and prevents
members of another group from patronizing it
that the leader should take action. When the
leader observes soldiers grouping in the dining
hall, in the dayroom or even in clubs, he should
ask himself, "When I see several whites groupPuerto
ing, do I feel the same as I do when I
Rfoans. groUpi:itg?" The imaginative leader recofirltze,s ~hat ~~ping is natur11:l, but ,he tries
to·\iiiti.i~i~\! ii;,:O:~pr~\fiqint. a¢t!Vi~le~'that bring
ti·il. .·,~Xii llo1li)e.rs fo.getn;ei-:-£<ir'e':i.-a~.le,. !l.~hletlc
e.~#n11$.htid uni~. ~e 13. 'Thes~<acti'.vit!es hel
~ftl~~blµmu~l~a~Jn between soldlers of different rit~es;
· ' ·
·
· ·

see

-n · l_ "~·

LESSON LEARNED

Froln past successes and failures, these lessons
have been learned:
1. A leader who thinks he does not have a
potential racial problem is probably making a
mista~e. After-action reports on those units and
installations that have had racial disorders un·
iformly begin with statements by commanders
that ,th.ere were .no racial problems prior to the
start of race riots. The potential for racial
trouble exists within every unit, and if every
leader understands this, he will probably be
more .aware of what is .going on in his unit and
be better prepared to handle problems .that
arise.
2. To stay abreast of .racial problems,
leaders cannot rely completely on the chain of
comm!l.nd and the Inspector General; Some
soldiers are skeptical and distrustful of leaders
and the formal organization of the Army.
Therefore, they doubt their ability to get help
with t.heir pr9blema through . the chain of
command. The leader must get out of his office,
go to the trQop.s, and inquire about their

I··1
111

,,·;

:. '
I'

Ii

FM 22-100

problems. A group useful for this purpose is the
unit's Human or Race Relations Council.
Councils of this type provide the means for a
leader to "rap" with his men about problems
that they would normally be reluctant to take to
members of the chain of command. The leader
should make it clear, however, that these "rap
sessions" are not intended to make or change
unit policies, but rather to bring to the surface
areas for the leader's consideration in determining policy.
3. No grievance should be regarded as just
another complaint. An imagined problem produces the same result as a real problem, a
disgruntled soldier. Each complaint must be
carefully considered and investigated, corrective action taken, and the results publicized if
permissible. Regardless of the outcome, the
soldier must be kept informed of the status of
his grievance so that he can see that the leader
truly cares about him and his problem.
4. Rumors and false impressions must be
corrected by using every means available to
openly and honestly discuss racial problems as
they occur in the unit. Senior NCOs must stay
in touch with soldiers to learn and discuss
potential problems and to keep commanders
informed. The achievements and newsworthy
activities of minority races should be recognized publicly through local civilian media, minority press, and command publications. Each
man should feel that his hard work and achievements will be known and recognized. A man is
proud of his unit when his unit also shows pride
in him. Programs and literature outlining the
history and culture of minority groups should
be presented or made available to all soldiers.
Education is one of the best means of alleviating racial tensions. A person will not dislike
someone or something that he knows and understands as much as someone or something that is
foreign or strange to him. There should be an
attempt in the presentation of material about
culture to promote understanding of all racialethnic groups.
5. Unfair administering of justice, both judicial and nonjudicial, is something that
leaders at all levels must avoid. No soldier
should be subjected to unfair punishment because of his race or any other reason. If a
leader believes a member of his command is not
being treated fairly, he should bring it to the
attention of his superior in the chain of
command for review. As with most acts of alleged discrimination, a thorough investigation
of the facts is "a must."
6. In dealing with racial tensions, avoid
15-6

using minority group leaders only. Admittedly,
some insight may be gained through consultation with minority leaders. There is, however,
no substitute for the leader's personal involvement in the problems that affect his subordinates. The introduction of minority leaders
during the periods of extreme racial unrest
indicates a desire to solve the immediate
problem, not necessarily treat the cause of those
problems. Frequently, the minority leader introduced into this situation is regarded as a
"yes man" or "Uncle Tom." A favorable environment for good human relations significantly
reduces the chance of serious racial incidents.
7. Recreational facilities, to include dayrooms, do no good if they are not used. Leaders
should provide recreational facilities for their
soldiers and see that the available facilities
appeal to all racial groups. Basketball, a popular American sport, might appeal to blacks but
not to Mexican-Americans, whereas a golf
course may appeal to white soldiers, but not to
American Indians. Try to offer some recreational and social activities common to several
cultural groups. This is a good way to have
soldiers participate in activities with others of

FM 22-100

different backgrounds. Leaders should be espe·
cially aware of the tendency to provide recrea·
tional facilities and services for the family man
and his dependents rather than the unmarried
soldier. This can erode the objectives of recrea·
tional activities designed to promote racial harmony.
8. Be openminded and listen to a soldier's
convictions without first thinking he is a troub·
lemaker. Just as there are whites with racially
prejudiced attitudes, there are minority group
soldiers who are racially prejudiced.
9. Rank is no substitute for leadership.
Today's soldiers are more sensitive and
complex than those of the past. Soldiers can
spot the leader who depends upon his rank to
motivate his men. The leader must be concerned
and sincere in all of his dealings with subordinates. The American soldier asks only that his
leadership is based on sound judgme'nt and
impartial application.
10. Noncommissioned officers in charge of

barracks seldom live in the unit area. The lack
of supervision by senior noncommissioned of·
ficers and officers in the barracks at night
sometimes results in racial incidents. Often
these incidents starting as heated discussions
or arguments turn into racial dashes. As a
leader, you can insure that nightly supervision
in unit areas is adequate to provide necessary
control. There must be an active chain of
command and it must stay in contact with the
troops.
To apply these techniques, the leader must con·
tinue his research to keep his knowledge
current. He must be aware of current issues
and he must use available resources to broaden
his understanding.· Formal education is the
principal way to broaden understanding; Ji.
braries and military and civilian magazines
provide a wealth ofinformation on this subject.
Since 1964, numerous Army regulations directed at specific discriminatory practices have
been published. Army leaders should be familiar with their contents.

SUMMARY

This chapter has touched on the history of some minority 11110.i,ips,
prejudice, indicators of racial unrest, racial identity, c~uses'o~:rac!'al
tensions, and lessons learned. There has been no fittemi;)ti; to sui)ply the
answers to racial problems. The intent is to })'resent some c'ritleal
problem areas in race relations. Further reading is enciouraged. The
leaders' most precious resource is his men. Care must be taken to keep
them in good order.

FM 22-100

CHAPTER 16
PREVENTION OF

Absence without leave (AWOL) has Jong been a
problem for military commanders. However,
AWOL problems can be significantly reduced
and even prevented by the application of sincere, positive, and concerned leadership,
Article 86 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice defines the various classifications of
AWOL in which a soldier through his own actions is not at the proper place at the prescribed
time. This can cover a period of time ranging
from being a few minutes late to a formation to
being absent from a unit for a number of days.

Article 86 cannot be interpreted literally in all
cases. In applying this article, commanders are
called upon to employ both discretion and good
common sense. They must investigate and
weigh each case on its own merits. Additionally
the leader's actions should be based on his own
judgment and experience.
In discussing AWOL prevention, it is important
at the outset to know something about the characteristics of the soldier who goes AWOL. The
typical absentee is:
a. Under 21 years of age.
16-1

FM 22-100

men ts serves to compound their problems to the
point where they become the problems of the
unit and the unit leader.
Their problems fall into two categories, personal problems and contributing factors. First,
let us consider the persanal problems-those
which could arise whether or not the man is in
the Army. They include financial, marital, parental, drug, and emotional problems.
Although the implications of these problems are
known, their identification is often difficult. If
they can be identified, the leader can offer
advice and assistance or refer the soldier to one
of the agencies available for professional help.
The problems can be identified only ifthe leader
is able to convince his men that he is interested
in their welfare and will help eliminate these
problems.
The Situation

b. A high school dropout.
c. Immature, with a history of previous personal failure.
d. Likely to have a civil disciplinary record.
e. Experimenting with drugs.
f. Single.
g. A product of an unstable home.
h. Not adaptable.

These characteristics reveal a general profile of
men who have gone AWOL. While there are
many exceptions, they give the military leader a
useful tool for the identification of the potential
absentee.
Let us now consider why a man goes AWOL.
There is seldom only one reason, since AWOL is
determined· by three factors interacting continuously: the man, his situation, and his leaders.
The Man

The first factor is the man himself. Studies
show that the soldier who goes AWOL is unable
to cope with stress in both civilian life and in
the Army. Soldiers are continually faced with
changing situations which require adjustments
on their part. Failure to make these adjust16-2

The second category of problems which may
cause a soldier to go AWOL may be termed
"contributing factors," or dissatisfiers. They
consist of such things as an ineffective chain of
command, poor reception and integration into
his unit, improper job utilization, meaningless
work, racist environment, and inadequate counseling. Let us examine some of these problems
and suggest actions which the leader might take
to resolve them.
One common problem is the ineffective reception and integration of newly assigned troops.
When a soldier arrives at a unit, he is in a
period of transition and subject to stress. He
often feiils very much alone. If no one in the
chain of comm!!.nd tries to orient the new arrival properly and make him feel at home, the
stage can be set for AWOL.
. A critical consideration during reception and
integration is the duty assignment for a new
soldier. When possible, assign him to the position for which he is trained. If he must be
assigned elsewhere, tell him the reason for such
an assignment. The reasons for this are twofold.
First, the soldier will understand that his assignment is critical to the accomplishment of
the unit mission; second, the leaders at all
levels in the company will know the soldier's
background and the reason for the assignment,
and will therefore be able to make special efforts
to assist and motivate the soldier in his unfamiliar position.
Meaningful training and work are also necessary in every unit. Soldiers who Jee! that they
are leaming, accomplishing tasks, and partici·

FM 22-100

11t11 f IBDI 2111d 11aost
1111Potfa11t factor..
111e
~O

pating as members of the unit team are less
likely to go AWOL.
The "situation" as it pertains to this discussion
is not limited to those things mentioned, but
covers anything that may cause soldier frustra·
tion or pressure. Leave policy, availability of
supplies and equipment, mess facilities, pay,
personnel services, recreation facilities, and
billets are only a few of the many things which,
if they do not adequately provide for the

soldier's needs, can cause him to feel that his
only recourse to escape a bad situation is to go
AWOL.
The Leader

The final and most important factor in mini·
mizing the AWOL problem is the leader.
Leaders cannot keep their soldiers from having
personal problems; however, they can help them
solve their problems. Only leaders can prevent
their men from being put into a situation where
AWOL is seen as the only available course of
action. The numerous responsibilities of the
leader have been add.ressed throughout this
manual. Communicating, discipline, motivation, decisionmaking, and counseling are some
of the many tools which he can use to prevent
his men from going AWOL.
Leaders at all levels must prove to their men
that they are both capable and willing to help
them. Soldiers who do not respect and have
confidence in their leaders will not seek their
counsel or help. Therefore, each leader must not
only be conscious of his own effectiveness, but
he must train and counsel subordinate leaders
so that they are able to develop the required
relationship with their men. Only if each leader
in the chain of command actively strives to
· reach a relationship with his men based on
mutual trust can the AWOL problem be mini·
mized.
One of the leader's tasks is the development of a
workable AWOL prevention program. Through
this, he can establish guidelines which his subordinate leaders can use during the day-to-day
activities within the unit. Policies can be established for solving personal problems, identify·
ing and eliminating dissatisfiers, providing
meaningful training, and developing leadership
actions effective in preventing AWOL.

SUMMARY

Sincere, positive, and concerned leadership is the most important
element in the prevention of AWOL. Knowing who may go AWOL and
the reasons for which they may go is important, but not sufficient. This
knowledge must be the basis for an AWOL prevention program involving all leaders and focusing on all soldiers. The program must be
carefully designed, implemented, and monitored to insure that it anticipates and meets the needs of our soldiers.

16-3

FM 22-100

•• NOW Li1S'f Ug,

S.Ll??osi;. •.

FM 22-100

SITUATIONAL STUDIES
Situational studies are in this manual to give examples of the numerous day to day problems which confront the leader. They have been
analyzed to assist him in relating the information in the manual to
some of the problems which he faces.
These studies, which are aimed at the junior leader, can apply to all
branches of the service and can be related to both combat and noncombat situations. Because it is impossible to present a study which
would apply to every situation; these may be adapted to fit the required
areas of interest or may be used as examples for the development of
specific studies to support particular training.
they were not oversupervised, and that they
seemed to work well with the men. He stated
that Sergeant Hurley, second squad leader,
sometimes drank too much and had a tendency
to harass his men. He said the state of training
was good, that the platoon usually came in
second place on the platoon tests, and that they
had taker\ first place once. He went on to say
that the men, however, did need some training
with weapons. He further stated that unit morale and discipline were good and that they had
not had an AWOL or request for transfer in 4
months. Lieutenant Nelson thanked Sergeant
Ferguson for the rundown on the platoon, said
that it sounded like Sergeant Ferguson had
been doing a fine job, and stated that he was
looking forward to working with him. The lieutenant also stated that he didn't want to make
any changes until he had observed the platoon
for a few days.
Lieutenant Nelson had just been assigned to the
company. After meeting the first sergeant and
the other platoon leaders, he was briefed by the
company commander on company policies and
SOPs and then introduced to his platoon
sergeant, SFC Ferguson. Lieutenant Nelson
asked Sergeant Ferguson to "fill him in" on the
platoon and said he would like to talk first to
the NCOs and then to the men as soon as it was
convenient.
Sergeant First Class Ferguson told Lieutenant
Nels on that the platoon was in pretty good
shape, that the NCOs accepted responsibility if

Later that day, in a meeting with the platoon's
NCOs, Lieutenant Nels on made this speech.
"As you know, I'm your new platoon leader. I've
heard some very good things about you, and I'm
happy to be working with you. I hope you will
cooperate with me, as you did with your former
platoon leader.
"One reason I called this meeting is to tell you
that I don't plan to make any major changes in
platoon policies and routine. I understand
you've worked hard and that the unit's in pretty
good shape. I'd like to keep it that way. Better
still, I think we can make it the best in the
company. But, until I know the platoon better, I
Studlu-l

FM 22-100

want you to continue running your squads as
you've done before.
"If you have any discipline or morale problems
with your men, or if you have any personal
problems, come to see Sergeant Ferguson or me.
We'll do everything we can to help you.
"Also, if one of your men has a personal
problem and wants to see me, make sure he,gets
a chance to do so. Some of your men might be
afraid to talk about their problems-a big debt
for example-because of a fear of having some
disciplinary action taken against them. I'd like
you and your men to know that this won't be the
case so far as I'm concerned. If you or one of
your men has a problem and wants my help,
then I want to know about it so that something
can be done.
"One last thing! As soon as I've had an opportunity to observe the, men and get to know the
routine, we'll have another meeting. At it hat:
time, I hope to make any changes or new policies which. I think will improv:e tbe. ,Platoo!l.
We'll talk them over before wej.ui:npin with,botl.l
feet.
·
·
"Well, that's· about it, unless someone has que!l-'
tions or suggestions right now on ways of improving the platoon."
With this, Sergeant Hurley said that his squad
had been split up in two rooms for several
months and recommended that his squad and
another,trade places for awhile. Lieutenant Nelson handled the situation by saying he .would
rather consider it :later: on ill th~ w~ek beca1:ue
he first wanted to obser.ve tlll.ings as they were. · ·
Later in the day, Lieutenant Nelson !net the
platoon at a formatfon. He gave tb~hl' "AT'
EASE" and begarl his lntroductiott; · ' ' ·
"I haven't had an opportunity to meet all of you
yet, but time will remedy that. As you may have
heard, I was recently commissioned from OCS.
I had 4~ years of enlisted service prior to OCS.
This gives me some experience that may be
helpful to us here.
"Although I've only been in the company for 1
day, I've heard some very good things about
you. You're to be commended for having a
splendid record. I hope you'll continue. I'm sure
it will be a pleasure serving with you.
"If we can work together closely, I think we can
make this platoon even better than it is now.
You .probably want this as much as I do, In fact,
I'm going to expect this. Just remember to keep
a good appearance at.all times, be as sharp.as
Studi..-2

possible and do your job well. If we can do this,
I'm sure we can become one of the best platoons
in the whole battalion.
"As you might gather from this, I have one basic
policy that I'd like every man in the platoon to
understand. I believe that men who work hard
and do a good job should be rewarded for it. On
the other hand, I also believe that those few who
don't carry their share of the load should not get
the privileges the rest get.
"One last thing, and I'll let you go to chow. If
you have any gripes, complaints, or personal
problems, go see your squad leaders. They know
that if they can't help you, either Sergeant
Ferguson or I will do whatever we can. Above
all, don't keep problems to yourselves; let us
know about them."
DISCUSSION

The manner in which a new platoon leader
takes command of a unit is extremely imporj(ant. His ae,.tions ,will determine whether or
not.his men·il'ee hifu·as a :potentially good
leader. Fkat 'im~ss.lo~si'~re. lasting· and can
seriously affect the trlen's wi!lillgness to cooperate. If these lmpressiQps are negative, it is
difficult to change them.
This situation was taken from an i!leident of
good platoon leadership and demonstrates how
one platoon leader took command of a good
unit. His actions were uniformly good.
Upon being assigned tot.he company, the new
lieutenant was given a briefing by the Mmpany
comlllllflder. 'l'he narrative does not $ay specifically wliat was sl;\'id at this meeting; 'Qut, the
coiany comm~nder Jiid inform the new
p~, \Jn 1.eafl'er. ab .out;•c,01npany policies and
SO.fl.' • Thia orientation :Was necessary to speed
up ''.'the ·platoorl leader's integration into the
company.
After meeting the other company officers, he
w~ introduced to his platoon sergeant. The
platoon leader's first. action was to arrange a
time tQ meet the NCOs, and also a time to meet
the res.t of the men in the platoon. He demon·
strated that he felt a need to get Sergeant
Fergµson's opinions on the unit's condition t;1nd
i11formation on the unit's present activities and
SOPs .. This showed respect for the platQon
se):'geant's position and ·a willipgpess to consider any suggestions he might have.
The lieutenan.t told the platoon sergeant tha.t he
wanted the platoon to continue running as It
had done in the past, and that he
would observe'
.

FM 22'-100

it for a few days before making any changes.
This was a good approach because it gave him a
chance. to evaluate the platoon's capabilities
and deficiencies before making changes;
This underscores an error made by some
leaders upon taking command. They immediately make maj.or changes in policies and
SOPs. Except in unusual cases, these. changes
usually have a bad effect on the performance
and morale of the men. They are usually interpreted as a reflection· on· the former leader, who
may have been well liked. U changes are made.
without careful consideration of the whole
system; they may create more problems than'
they solve,
·
·
. · . '
Knowledge that a new leader is to take
command and that he will make wholesale
changes in established routes may cause appl'.e•
hension and insecurity. People, .in general;
resent sudden change because it tends to confuse them, to "upset the apple cart," and to
create the necessity for learning new things. If
changes must be made, they should be initiai;ed
gradually and tactfully, and with the help and
advice of su)Jorclh1•te,lea,ders. Hplatoon lj!Jq!l
are .made. awal'.e ;otc\\,pr9b'~~· rt11d,t,li~~·};iewr ~s.,
etihs;t. ed .m 119. lvw.1.i.t ,&. r1fl, ~
.. •P)~WRP m~rt~i
solutiol\1, the elf~f~~ ~ Af\!H~ J\l11f~q1.i;e, ~IW %~(1
ri;iptiv.e. ,, :. ,.,.,.,i lliw n": ,.,,,,i.·,,,i,n .i!u.,mib
Th is 1eatlet's' ll~ti()ti!S'W'<'>'l!.~d! \iWdtmBlM<i·lY'h'ie!it'e' &~
favorable i'lnpllessi!!>thtti~ills"heW P'fa'tdlinx Tlit!'
platoon leader's ·iitt'tem'e:ilts'iii1 t'ega'tdct!i grald:dli!r
change· were rea~llurlrt~. 'Th~ ·'mari coultl r~lax'
withthe knowledge that he would not immedl-

'i"

ately start thrashing about without knowing
what the consequence's of his actions•twoil~d be.
The sec'9i:id productive action Wa,J. his et!f~ to
modify, ih a favorable ·1.Yay, the atmosp~~re of
apprehensfon that attend a transfer of leadel'·
ship. Specific acts in this regard were1. He commended the plato9n sergeant in
terms of the job he had been doing, Praise will
almost always evoke gratifica·1l:i:ori in those
praised.
2. He said essentially the same things later
to the NCOs with probably the same effect.
3. He followed the chain-of-command in the
order in which he sp:oke to platoon members.
This is a device for enhancing .the prestige :of
the NCOs '11\ith their' subordinates and would
undoubtedly earn .their appreciatton.
4. He stated to ,all that he wo.u!d make no
immediate changes,.·
5. He sta~d ·th.at he would solicit advice
from his NCOs when e):lange,s were to be made,
thereby indicating that they would have a voice
in determining platoop. po1leies.and SOPs. This
persuasiv;iii d!>lviee raiely fails to eli?it the support ofc!lne1·scs:i.tbordinates...
.
·.

6::lJ(~:~eE":·,
·..th.a···t· h.i w.t\t; R.fi\il.!llirle to"help

whe _
s .·
t

; ' ~· ad .pr-0blem$\]l'Ji.1s•Willln
. n,:P~bJb'l~evGiedt~
gliesi~w· .. '
· ·"
~

ji!ss to
~mt
·· '

'

H
ment of·
'
dling of adVice, C1)
' ~'i!llts
is a valuable ability for a leadert-0 acquire.

FM 22-100

sergeant to get Dillon so that he could talk to
him. When Dillion reported, LT Baits gave him
the mission. Dillon complained that it wasn't
his turn to take out a patrol and said he was
being picked-on for extra details. Lieutenant
Baits interrupted and explained the reasoning
behind his decision. Sergeant Dillion, after
hearing the reasoning behind the decision,
stated that he and the patrol would do the best
they could.
DISCUSSION

Lieutenant Baits told his platoon sergeant that
he had just come from a meeting with the company commander, who had given the platoon a
difficult mission. He went on to say the platoon
must send out a four-man 48-hour reconnaissance patrol to locate enemy artillery positions.
Then ,he asked his sergeant to recommend a
man to lead the patrol.
The platoon sergeant said that Sergeant Wilks
was the next man due, but that he didn't have
much experience in leading patrols like this
one. He said Sergeant Dillon was the best man
for the job, but that Dillon had been on more
than his share of patrols and was due for rotation in 2 weeks. He went on to say the Sergeant
Martz was sick and that Sergeant White had
just returned from a patrol; therefore, he would
have to recommend Dillon if the patrol was as
important as it sounded.
Lieutenant Baits agreed and asked the platoon
Studies-4

An important aspect of leadership is the equitable use of the men on assignments. A problem
frequently encountered is that of having to decide whether to give important and difficult
tasks to the best qualified men in the unit, or to
rotate those tasks fairly among all the men in
the unit. Either alternative may have certain
undesirable effects. The best solution probably
lies in a tradeoff, using rotation of tasks except
where difficulty or importance of the mission
dictates use of the best available men.
To use the best men consistently on these tasks
is an unfair distribution of the difficult assignments. This may impair morale. This is especially true in combat where danger and the
likelihood of death is increased. Further, if the
best men are consistently used for the most
difficult missions, they will inevitably become
casualties. When this happens, the remaining
men will not be sufficiently experienced and
able to take the difficult missions. On the other
hand, to assign these missions on a rotation
basis may cause an increased failure rate and a
lower standard of performance on the difficult
missions. This, in essence, was the type of dilemma this platoon leader had to face.
When his platoon was required to patrol to get
information on enemy artillery positions, the
platoon leader had to pick the man who was
most likely to succeed. This required a patrol
leader who was well trained and experienced in
patrolling. The platoon leader picked the most
qualified man even though he had already used
him excessively. He based his decision on his
opinion of the difficulty and importance of the
mission, It is impracticable to say more than
that the decision appears to be correct. There
are, however, two other important features of
the platoon leader's behavior which deserve·
mention.
Before making his decision, he consulted with
his platoon sergeant to get his opinion on who
should be chosen. This was a wise action. Seeking information and advice from his subordi-

FM22-100

nate leaders before making important decisions
improves the quality of a leader's judgment.
After making his decision, the platoon leader
had a. talk with the sergeant and explained his
reasons for choosing him. By giving his
sergeant a reasonable, logical explanation of

why he had been chosen, the platoon leader
made his aeti'0ns· seem reasonable..,..tba1: is,
Dillon co1:1ld more easily see that a prbpet' <;leci•
sion had been.wade. Consequently, he prolial?ly
· was better motivated to accept the assignment
without grumbling and to do a good job.

--,:

•',<_Ji;;:

t;,'5{)_r1: 1-;'ttl#-~1'~;-~~.{ ·1-ftft-l

· i1u,J;~·1 1F1- . .~ ,fa:vJJi1~ti:i

Ifi Yo~'--~{f(j~,H~1-·r

:t~~-f lfiiii l~>i{~J
·jf;'<h~~r ,·hJl}-~"'.h-: ·('".·.

'.*" ·'if 1i; i~~1;i-$tri(;?:·:\{J~1\ft fIJO:.>

· '( ... ;-vi -.>f~i~f:l,{~;:i'•1f ~jk;~ f±Lf
'<l < f; l'., :;· <;I- .·t f f) .; ' ' (

-;~fr~-~~~? ;v, ri-~ ~'~f·it?- ·
''.

1>;

,-,:-!

1;:1,;'

' t'>_1
-r;; \J

. ,·''

; \i ', 'j
-,-)/_;.,,--, ·L 'j
'..I , ,

'' .:

FM 22-100

proval or disapproval would depend on Private
Jones' background, the extent to which the
platoon leader needed him, and the administrative problems involved in transferring him.
There is not enough information in the situation to permit an evaluation of these factors.
However, there were several serious faults in
the handling of this situation.
First, the company commander failed to consult
with the platoon leader about Jones' transfer.
This would have been desirable, first, because
the company commander said he would do so
and, second, because he could have gotten important information as to the advisability of
transferring Private Jones. A leader usually
makes a wiser decision if he consults his subordinate leaders. Because of their past experience
and close contact with their men, subordinate
leaders generally have a wealth of knowledge
and information which a company commander
can use to improve the quality of his decisions.
Next, the company commander failed to inform
Jones that he had decided to disapprove the
transfer. This was contrary to his promise to
inform Jones in a couple of days and kept Jones
in a state of doubt and indecision as to whether
he would get the transfer.
Private First Class Jones submitted a written
request for transfer to his company commander. The company commander told him that
he would talk it over with Jones' platoon leader
before deciding and would let him know in a
couple of days.
Having heard nothing about his request after
more than a week, Jones asked his platoon
leader if the company commander had discussed the request for transfer with him. The
platoon leader said that he had not been consulted but that the company commander had
probably signed the request and forwarded it to
the personnel section.
When another week passed and still no word
was heard about the transfer, Jones asked the
company clerk about the status of the request.
The clerk said that the company commander
had disapproved the request and still had it on
his desk.
DISCUSSION

This situation concerns the handling of a
request for transfer by a company commander.
The decision is not of major concern in this
situation. Normally, a recommendation for ap-

Studies-6

But, perhaps more important than this was the
company commander's failure to communicate
his reasons for disapproving Jones' transfer. If
he had legitimate reasons for wanting to keep
Jones in the unit, he could have produced better
acceptance of the disapproval if he had told
Jones what these reasons were. Knowing that
there were important reasons for the decision to
disapprove the request, Jones would not have
felt as bad about the outcome, and he probably
would continue to do a good job in his platoon.
By failing to state his reasons, the company
commander missed a chance to maintain Jones'
future work performance at a high level. As a
result Jones might decide to do only enough to
get by.
Finally, 2 weeks after the request was submitted, the company commander still had not
transmitted the disapproved request for
transfer up through the chain of command. This
was an error because, in this case, the company
commander did not have final approval authority. This failure placed him in an undesirable
position. If Jones had made a complaint, the
company commander would be wide open for
reprimand by his superiors for neglect in carrying out his duties.

FM 22-100

Several hours later the squad leader told
Phillips that he had talked to the platoon leader
and to the company commander about his
request and that he could start his leave the
next day. The squad leader also pointed out to
Phillips that if he had problems like this in the
future, he should be sure to let him know so that
he could help him. He also told him to take it
easy and not to get himself in any trouble while
on leave.
DISCUSSION

This situation was an incident of good squad
leadership and illustrates what one squad
leader did to help one of his men with a personal problem. Such problems usually lower
performance and morale if they are allowed to
go unresolved.
Initially, the squad leader was presented with a
request for leave from one of his men. This was
a request for some time off to go home to visit
his family. On the surface, it appeared to be a
routine request, and its disapproval at this time
should have caused no problem so far as the
man's performance and morale were concerned.
But, the need for leave was more urgent than
the man led the squad leader to believe.

Specialist Fourth Class Phillips asked his
squad leader for a 10-day leave, stating that he
had not been home for a year and wanted to see
his family. His squad leader asked if that was
the only reason for his request, and Phillips
stated that it was. The squad leader told
Phillips that the squad could not spare him
right then because they had a field problem in a
few days which required maximum participation since the squad was 11lready undermanned.
The squad leader further stated that he could
not recommend that Phillips be granted leave
until after the field problem.
A few days later, during the field problem, the
squad leader noticed that Phillips was not performing in his usual way. While talking to
Phillips' fire team about it, he found out
Phillips had a personal problem. The fire team
leader said that Phillips had gotten a letter
from his mother stating that his wife was running around with another man. He said that
this was the reason Phillips wanted leave. The
squad leader replied that he did not know about
Phillips' problem and then talked to Phillips in
order to verify the reason he had requested
leave. After this, he told Phillips that he would
speak to the platoon leader about his leave
request.

When Phillips failed to present a more urgent
need for immediate leave, the squad leader decided that he could reasonably wait until after
the field problem was over. Under the circumstances, this was a sensible decision; the squad
leader was more or less compelled to tell the
man that he would not recommend to the
platoon leader that leave be granted.
Note the manner in which the refusal was given.
The squad leader explained his reasons for
refusal and he also linked these reasons to
Phillips' inability to provide a more compelling
reason for getting immediate leave. Under the
circumstances it seemed reasonable for the
squad leader to refuse, and it was important
that Phillips understand· this. If he did, his
motivation to perform well in the future would
not have been affected.
If Phillips' reason for going home had been as
superficial as it seemed, the outcome of the
situation would have been satisfactory. But
Phillips had not given his real reason; he had a
serious problem which he had not revealed.
Because of this, his performance in the field
problem began to suffer. Serious problems will
inevitably impair a man's ability to do good
work.
While observing the squad training, the squad
leader saw that Phillips was not up to par. This
Studie.-7

FM 22-100

was a "cry for help" by Phillips. The squad
leader noted it and immediately found out why.
He checked with Phillips' fire team leader, and
learned Phillips' real reason for wan ting leave.
Phillips wanted to go home and straighten
things out with his wife, who was "running
around" with another man. Apparently he had
been unwilling to tell the squad leader about
this problem; he probably was embarrassed.
Many will not talk about their problems because
they are either ashamed or afraid of the conse·
quences if someone else learns about them.
The squad leader's next actio.n was to have
another talk with Phillips who confirmed the
fire team leader's report. He then talked with
the platoon leader and c9mpany commander.
He decided that Phillips' problem was sufficiently serious to warrant immediate leave.
This waa a wise decision because PhiU!ps'. performance Ip the field Pl'!>hlem .very .likely would
have been aubstand~ had he,,be6Jl, foroed.to

Studl..-8

continue. In fact, he could even have· been a
liability to his squad. ·
·
Later, the squad leader told Phillips .that his
leave had been granted. He also told Phillips to
inform him if he had problems like this in the
future. This action servedto ex:Plain why he had
not initially approved the request and pointed
out that he was interested in his men's problems
and would help them if possible. At the same
time, he cautioned Phillips against getting into
trouble when he went home. Under the circum·
stances, this was appropriate.
The effect of the squad leader'.s actions on
Phillips, and on the rest of the squad as well,
can be predicted. He will appear to be both
interes~d in maintaining high squad performance and wdlling to. help his men out if they
have trouble. Smih .conditions generally result
in a high degree of cooperation between a leader
and his m.en• ' '
'

J

'

FM 22-100

the noon formation. In addressing the company, he stated that he viewed the black power
salute as a gesture of solidarity and recognition
among black people. He·further stated that these
symbols of racial pride often caused problems
because many consider them as threatening
gestures.
The clenched fist gesture, the normal hand salute, "Gary Owen," and" Airborne-all the way"
are technically all symbols of brotherhood. The
clenched fist can be compared to the peace sign
used by many whites. When used, it normally
implies, "I understand" or "I am with you."
Captain Snow stressed, however, that none of
the gestures should be used instead of the hand
salute and never as a part of an official function or ceremony. He added .that he understood
the black's thrust for racial identity but thought
that blacks should also consider the potential
effect such symbols might have on the other
members of the company.
DISCU.SSION

Captain Snow was the Commander of a rifle
company. In an effort to foster good communication between the soldiers of his company and
the chain of command, he frequently returned
to the company area after duty hours· to talk
informally with his troops and keep abreast of
what they were doing. One night, Captain Snow
attended the post theater. The National anthem
was played prior to the movie, and all stood at
attention. At the conclusion of the Anthem, a
group of blacks gave the black power salute and
shouted, "We shall overcome!"
The next morning the first sergeant asked to
talk to Captain Snow concerning rumors that
were spreading throughout the company. The
first sergeant stated that some of the white
soldiers were voicing resentment over the use of
' the black power salute. They felt threatened
when blacks displayed the clenched fist accompanied with remarks such as "We shall over-

come."
Captain Snow decided to talk to the company at

In this situation, Captain Snow was faced with
a potential racial problem brought about by the
use of racial symbols and reactions to them. He
realized that the use of the black power salute
was causing resentment and misunderstanding
between black and white soldiers. This resentment, if left unnoticed, could erupt into racial
violence. Captain Snow realized that although a
clenched fist can represent violence, it can also
represent unity. The company commander also
realized that any attempt to ban or prohibit the
use of the black power salute would probably
result in an even more serious problem. Therefore, his actions in openly addressing the
subject to all parties concerned accomplished
several things: Communication between black
and white soldiers was reestablished; white
soldiers were informed that outward manifestations of racial pride should not be looked upon
as threats to their security; and blacks were
told that they should feel proud of their heritage, but that their allegiance to the unit and to
its members should also be considered. Racial
pride is desirable, but it should not be demonstrated to the extent that it causes friction
within the unit.

Studieo-9

FM 22-100

Upon finding the drugs, LT Morgan stopped the
inspection and dismissed the rest of the
platoon. He accosted Wintergreen and de·
manded to know where he had purchased the
heroin. Under this questioning, Wintergreen admitted to using heroin and selling it to other
members of the company. Morgan then placed
Wintergreen under arrest and called the military police.
Later, during PFC Wintergreen's court-martial,
when the court learned of the facts, they granted
Wintergreen's defense counsel's motion to
suppress the drugs and paraphernalia as evidence, to strike Wintergreen's confession, and to
dismiss the case. Wintergreen was released.
DISCUSSION

Lieutenant Morgan had recently graduated
from his officer basic course and was assigned
as a platoon leader in "B" Company. At first,
LT Morgan was apprehensive about his first
leadership position, but during the next 2
months he steadily gained confidence in himself
and his abilities.
Lieutenant Morgan had encountered no serious
problems with the platoon until his platoon
sergeant, Sergeant Wood, reported that he suspected PFC Wintergreen of possessing and using illegal drugs. Sergeant Wood stated that he
could not prove Wintergreen was using drugs,
but he felt certain that he we.a. Lieutenant
Morgan knew that Sergeant Wood was an excellent noncommissioned officer with many
yea.rs of experience in the Army. Therefore,
based on Sergeant Wood's recommendation,
Lieutenant Morgan decided to conduct a shakedown inspection of his platoon in an attempt to
catch Wintergreen in the possession of illegal
drugs.
On the day of the inspection, LT Morgan started
with PFC Wintergreen's squad. He rapidly inspected the first three men in the squad, inspecting only their field equipment and their
persons. When he came to Wintergreen, however,
LT Morgan slowly and thoroughly inspected his
field gear, his personal possessions, and his
person. He even searched under Wintergreen's
bed. It was there he found four packets of heroin
and the implements to inject the drug.
Studle.-10

This situation is an example of what can
happen if an officer or NCO attempts to act in a
law enforcement cape.city without proper
knowledge of the law. If LT Morgan had more
knowledge of the legal aspects of search, seizure,
and interrogation procedures, the case would
not have been mishandled.
First, Lieutenant Morgan did not have "probable cause" to search PFC Wintergreen for drugs.
Mere suspicion alone, unsupported by concrete
facts, is not enough to legalize a search.
Sergeant Wood only suspected Wintergreen of
being a drug abuser. He could not cite facts with
which to substantiate his belief.
Morgan's second mistake was in not conducting
a proper search. His excuse for searching Wintergreen was the "shakedown" inspection. This
is usually the most thorough of all Army inspections and is a good device for detecting contraband. However, such an inspection must be
thorough and complete and not a pretext to
search a particular person. It must also be of
broad scope, covering all aspects of unit readiness, health, and safety. Lieutenant Morgan
divulged the true intent of this inspection by
searching the first three men superficially and
then conducting a long and detailed search of
Wintergreen and his equipment. He further revealed his plan by curtailing the inspection and
dismissing his men after finding heroin belonging to Wintergreen. This, plus the fact that the
inspection was based on a "tip-off," would make
it extremely easy for a defense counsel to con·
vince the court of the illegality of the search.
Morgan's fine.I .and most obvious mistake was
in not informing Wintergreen of his rights
under article 31 of the UCMJ prior to questioning him. Article 31 state&--

PM 22-100
No person subject to this code may interrogate, or
request any statement from, an accused or-a person
suspected of an offense without first informing him
of the nature of the accueation and advising him
that he does not ha veto make any statement regard~
ing the offense of which he is accused or suspected
and that any statement made by him may be used
as evidence against him in a trial by court-martial.

The law further states that, if a confession is
obtained without informing the accused of his
rights in the matter, the confession may not be
used as evidence against him in court. Thus, Win-

' .. )~ .' 1

; f I ~'

)'.).

,I

"

,;1

') 't :.i. •)'. : . }.• .' {-_1 '.

'-.",l

tergreen's confession was invalid and could n9t
be used against him.
We can see how Morgan's ignorance of the law
allowed Wintergreen to gain freedom. Had LT
Morgan better understood the law, he would
have helped himself by making a proper search
and seizure, helped the Army by apprehending
another drug trafficker, and-perhaps most
important of all-helped Wintergreen to free
him self of heroin addiction.

"(I,'.

',,

i

I'I
I

Studla... n

FM 22-100

him. As Gomez stood up to explain what they
were talking about, Jones struck him in the face.
DISCUSSION

Privates Gomez and Sanchez were speaking
quietly over a cup of coffee in the snack bar.
Gomez was telling Sanchez that he has trouble
understanding what the drill sergeants were
saying in class. He also expressed concern about
his ability to do well on the end-of-cycle proficiency test the following week. Sanchez said that
he lacked confidence and suggested they ask
some of the other soldiers to help them after
duty hours. Looking around the room, Gomez
noticed Privates Jones and Jackson watching
them with suspicious frowns. Turning to
Sanchez, he continued their discussion in
Spanish. During this conversation Jones and
Jackson moved to the table and wanted to know
what they were saying. Jackson wanted to know
why the two Mexican-Americans were not speaking English and why they were talking about

Studleo-12

In this situation, Privates Jones and Jackson
assumed that Privates Gomez and Sanchez were
talking about and belittling them; this misunderstanding led to the fight.
Gomez and Sanchez were speaking Spanish
because bilingual people usually feel more comfortable using their native language-they find
it easier to understand and it serves as a common
bond between them. Many soldiers enter the
Army unable to speak or understand English
very well. This often presents problems such as
the incident that occurred above. Most people
are suspicious of those things they do not understand, or with which they are not familiar.
The leader should encourage his soldiers that
have difficulty in speaking or understanding
English to attend on- or off-duty courses or in
order to improve their ability to speak English.
Many units assign sponsors to soldiers who have
difficulty speaking or understanding English.
This improves the man's ability to communicate
and also enhances the morale and esprit of the
unit. Social and athletic events that bring soldiers in contact with each other in other than
duty-related activities will provide the basis for
everyone to get to know his fellow soldiers.
Leaders must recognize language-barrier problems and deal with them in a direct manner. A
leader can deal with them through involvement
and close supervision during and after duty
hours. Additionally, the leader must make all
this men aware of the following:
• Soldiers who speak different languages
are not less intelligent.
• Soldiers should not become offended when
they hear others speaking another language.
Bilingual men are an asset to the unit.
• Xobody should assume that, because he
cannot understand a conversation, it is about
him.

FM 22-100

their jobs is the extent to which they feel that
they are valued as members of the unit. The
leader can foster this situation, by seeing that
they are given recognition for good work. The
platoon leader should inform the commander
about the contributions and accomplishments
of his men.

I/

Sergeant West recommended to his platoon
leader, Lieutenant Hill, that the next day's
training schedule be changed from care and
cleaning of equipment to platoon tactical train·
ing since the platoon had just completed a
detailed inspection of equipment and everything was found to be in good shape. Lieutenant
Hill, in turn, made the recommendation to the
company commander, who granted permission
to make the change.
The following day at training, the company
commander commended Lieutenant Hill, in the
presence of Sergeant West, for his initiative in
making the recommendation. Lieutenant Hill
accepted the praise as if the recommendation
had been his idea.
DISCUSSION

A factor which affects soldiers' satisfaction with

In this situation, the platoon leader failed to do
this. He gave the company commander his
platoon sergeant's suggestion for a change in
training as though it was his own. This was a
serious error. Soldiers who do outstanding
work and are valuable members of their units
earn rewards and prestige. Examples of these
rewards are consideration for promotion, consideration for advancement to more important
jobs, etc. Also, the value of the man to the unit
counts heavily in determining the extent to
which his unit will support him if he ever gets
into trouble. The belief that his good performance and contributions to the unit's effort are
recognized and valued by his superiors has both
a satisfying and a motivating effect on a
soldier. In this situation, the platoon leader's
appropriating the platoon sergeant's suggestion
prevented the sergeant from getting the recognition that he should have had.
The platoon leader had a chance to rectify his
error when t.he company commander complimented him on the quality of the idea. His
failure to do so at this time was especially
critical because it was obvious to his platoon
sergeant, and perhaps to the other NCOs, that
the platoon leader was getting credit for an idea
that was not his own. This is one quick way to
earn the distrust of one's subordinate leaders
and to cut off the upward flow of ideas and
suggestions they can provide.
In summary, a platoon leader should give credit
to the soldier responsible for ideas when these
ideas work out favorably. He also must take the
responsibility for others' ideas if he adapts
them and they have poor results. Unfair as this
may appear, it is vitally necessary for efficient
platoon functioning.

Stucll&o-13

I

FM 22-100

the company." Sergeant Murphy said; "But, sir!
That's not fair!" Captain Giles interrupted
again, "That's all, sergeant; dismissed."
Several days later the battalion commander,
Lieutenant Colonel Dunn, had Sergeant
Murphy report to him and advised him of his
rights under article 31, UCMJ. Lieutenant Colonel Dunn told Sergeant Murphy that his company commander had recommended he be
reduced for being AWOL, and then asked why he
missed the formation. Sergeant Murphy explained that his wife was sick; he had to take
her to the hospital, and he didn't get a chance to
call the company to explain his absence. The
battalion commander asked how his wife was
now, and Murphy said that she was all right
and would be getting out of the hospital in a few
days.

This situation occurred when a company commander was talking to his platoon leaders after
a morning formation. It concerns the actions of
the company commander in maintaining discipline in his unit.
Captain Giles asked Lieutenant Burns, "What
happened to Sergeant Murphy this morning?
He didn't make formation!" Lieutenant Bums
replied, "I don't know, sir, I haven't talked to
him yet.'' To this, Captain Giles emphatically
said, "Well, this has got to stop. It's the second
time this month an NCO has missed formation.'' Burns indicated that Murphy was a good
NCO and that he probably bad a reason for
mtssing formation. At this, Giles exploded,
"Good record or not, the NCOs must accept
certain responsibilities. You certainly can't
expect a man to be a good leader if he's lacking
in discipline himself! Send Murphy to see me as
soon as he gets in."
A short time later, Sergeant Murphy reported to
the company commander as directed and
started to explain why he was late for formation. Captain Giles interrupted, "What did I tell
you NCOs when I took command, Murphy?"
Sergeant Murphy replied, "Sir, you said if we
goofed up, you'd throw the book at us." "It looks
like that didn't make much of an impression on
you," replied Giles. "Sergeant, it's high time you
learned a sense of responsibility. I'm going to
recommend to the battalion commander that he
give you an article 15 and reduce you one
grade. We'Jl let this be an example to the rest of
Studleo-14

Lieutenant Colonel Dunn asked, "Did you tell
Captain Giles all this?" "I tried, sir, but he
wouldn't listen. He wants to make an example
out of this," Murphy replied. Lieutenant Colonel
Dunn informed the sergeant that missing a
formation was a serious offense, but that in this
ease he had a legitimate reason for being late.
He cautioned the sergeant to be sure to call the
company if he were delayed in the future. He
went on to say, "I'm not going to give you an
article 15. You're doing a good job in the company and have a clean record! This is in your
favor. Usually I go along with my company
commanders' decisions, but I'm going to make
an exeeptlon in your ease. I am giving you a
verbal reprimand. You were absent from formation and you didn't call the company to explain
wby.'This was wrong and you know it. Don't let
an incident of this nature happen again. I'll
talk to Captain Giles about this, and I am sure
he will want to talk to you later. That's all.''
Later, while Lieutenant Colonel Dunn was discussing Murphy's ease with the company commander, Captain Giles indicated that he was
unaware of the reason Murphy bad missed formation, and that the reason was unimportant.
He stated that he had stressed the importance of
being at formation numerous times and the
men knew they were supposed to call in if they
were going to be late. Lieutenant Colonel Dunn
replied, "That's true, captain, he should have
called in, but I won't go along with a demotion.
It's a pretty harsh punishment for something
like not calling in. I have given Murphy a verbal
reprim1,md because it seemed the reasonable
thing to do in this case." "But, sir, this is going
to mean that I won't have any control over my

FM 22'-100

men at all!" Giles injected. Lieutenant Colonel
Dunn continued, "I don't think so, captain.
Murphy has a clean record, and he's a good
man. He knows his case is an exception. Making
him an example might even make your men Jess
cooperative. I want you to understand that I'll
support you when you're right, but you did
mishandle .this. In the future, try getting the
facts first; then be a little more reasonable."
DISCUSSION

A company commander must administer appropriate disciplinary actions for performance
failures of his men. To determine which discic
plinaey action is appropriate, he mu·st first
determine why a performance failure occurred.
Unsatisfactory performance is the result of a
lack of ability, inadequate motivation, or a
combination of both. Although in practice this
distinction may be difficult, it must be attempted, In short, the leader must check on
reasons for failure, including related or mitigating circumstances, and either take or recommend, as the situation requires, the appropriate
corrective action. The company commander in
this situation failed in this important function.
The first thing to note is the ~o!hpa:nv. ~o~
mandl!li.''s attempt to mldp;.·taln.'d~.~.1~1'frtt.'ht,u~~
·
f ear· ·as th e ··mv
-'t'"·d.t''
'''" · .'".
mg
1v·.,.
•n:..
·r,w"'J~•
'. ~.ui.~
RP
1 " ·l _·).
rf,
.
.
'"1).J, .. ' ·:·J_-,.,
pe ormance.
_1·J ;'" 1• 1 ,: .,._;« (fl•
For example, when he a13aumed.c~ltiAn#·Qf.!lbe
unit, he told the men he V((,l'lll,d1~h~ t'j'!e,book;,p;t
them if they .go.ofed up, Actfon ·of thi~.type
generally creates fear, resentment, and a lack of
respect for the leader. These reactions also restrict the men's initiative, thereby making them
less able to perform successfully without close
supervision. That is, they will exercise little
initiative because they fear the consequences of
failure too much to risk doing anything except
exactly what they are told.
The company commander's next mistake was
the use of inappropriate and excessive punishment. As stated before, performance failures
result when men lack motivation or lack the
ability to perform well, Punishment is appropriate for motivational failures but not for the
ability failures. Ability failures should be dealt
with either by giving the soldier additional
training or by moving him to a position for
which he does have the ability to perform well.
In this situation, the company commander recommended a severe punishment for a failure
which was not caused by inadequate motivation. The failure to find out why the sergeant
missed formation typifies a leadership weak/,4'".'

ness commonly referred to as "going off halfcocked." It almost always results in embarrassment for the leaders.
The failure to check the sergeant's reason wal!
not the company commander's only error. He
also ignored the man's past record when recommending punishment. This should always be
one of the first and most important considerations when disciplinary action is being taken.
This information is a necessary aid in determining whether this performance failure should
be attributed to inadequate motivation or to a
lack of ability. In this case, the sergeant's good
record indicates his failure Is not to be attributed either to motivation or to ability but rather
to an unusual .situation. Once he is past this
situation, his performance .will in all probability revert to its previous high level. In this case,
punishment cannot be expected to better the
man's future performance.
One factor contributing to the company commander's excessively severe action was his ex"
pressed intention to make an example of the
sergeant. He·was probably trying to make the
punishment so severe that no other company
member would dare miss a formation in the
f!.itu·re,with'out <tiil'st caliling·in; ·However, as so
ofte\11-).:)\:filfllPeli)'l!,,~en. ~!Mil example is· made of a
Iii~~.!'~ ~.,,~~~ent ,is to:Q aevere ,fq,r the
o~ll<~1;Tl!,l!i!;do'esitn0lJe harm than good.
O'l'i~'fllllal :-t!oin't;sl\iiuM 'b~ mentioned. The com:
llomrliandel.' did rro~ have the auth~rity ~o
demote the sergeant himself. Redtlct1ons.m
rank can be made only through cotirts~martial
or other administrative action instigated by the
company commander, based on his own personal investigation. Such action requires the
presentation of evidence, However, the company
commander had completely neglected to collect
any evidence that might be considered favorable
for Sergeant Murphy. This was a serious oversight because the battalion commander was
sure to inquire into this aspect of the case
before deciding what was to be done. In this
case, he found evidence of extenuating circum·
stances. Consequently, the company commander had put himself in a bad spot. He was
almost certain to be criticized for not getting
the facts in the case, and he ran the chance that
the battalion commander might not support his
recommendation.
There were several things the battalion commander could have done. One would have been
to court-martial the man: However, for reasons
already given, this would have been inappropriate. A second possible action wou Id have

i>anf

Studles-'15

JI

FM 22-100

been to dismiss the charges against the sergeant
entirely. This was not the most desirable alternative because it would have constituted a complete rejection of the company commander's
recommendation for disciplinary action. This
in tum, would have undermined to some extent
the position of the company commander with
respect to his men.
The battalion commander's decision was a
sound compromise. The sergeant was disciplined reasonably, and, as a consequence, the
company commander was supported to an adequate extent. Most important, neither the
sergeant nor the other men in the company got
the impression that the company commander's
future disciplinary recommendations would
not be supported by the battalion commander.
Thus, in a difficult situation, the battalion commander took these proper actions:
1. He heard both the sergeant'.11 :an,d t,he
company commande~!l stories. .'.l'hi.s ,•ei}tl;lp)f/4
him to determine w.h~t <i;\sctJlHTI~:. was,. rieee,s,
sary, .based .on ip.ore <iwnPl~fe J~fo~t/on!, :S:I\~
he not done this, he would have made tile .11a.me
error as the company commander.
2. He considered the sergeant's record in
deciding on the appropriate discipline. By relating his leniency to the sergeant's good record,
he made a good record a worthwhile objective
for both the sergeant and the rest of the company. In effect, this made good performance a
kind of insurance against the type of mistake
the sergea.nt made ..

8. He rejected the company commander's
recommendations to take action against the
sergeant which might ha·ve resulted· in demotion. Demotion obviously was inappropriate. It
would.have amounted to punishing the sergeant
because his wife became ill. Both the Army and
the man would have suffered.
4. He disciplined the sergeant appropriately
for not calling the company. Minor diseipline
was warranted because the sergeant knew he
was supposed to call in. when he was going to be
late but nonetheless failed to do so. This was
mild pressure to make. him think of call mg in the
next time a similar situation arose.
5. He emphasized the fact that the sergeant
was an exception because of his good excuse
and good past record. By so doing, he both
maintained.the sergeant's motivation to do gpod
W()rk. 11nd. l:ndicatecj, that his policy was to suppprt tl)e c.Qmpany commander's recommenda.
t!pns..
,., 6.cHe opunseled• the eempany commander
a.bo·ut,,h·~s: ineo.:r.1'ect~hand14ng ·of .&h-e p:ro bl em
af!:e1nfire:t detemiining whe1'her or not the company ce.mmande.r had ucheck&.d. into the
sergeant'11 reasons for failure. Hiii! critiquing
action followed his determination of the company commander's ideas ah<iut the reaaons for
failure.· In the critique, he explained his reasons for rejecting the company commander's
recommendations and his reasons for the action he did take. These actions were taken so the
oompany commander would know what he did
wrong and why.

FM 22-100

men's motivation will be low. This is so because
good.performance will not be seen by the men as
the key to getting things they want and to
avoiding things they do not want.
The platoon leader in this situation committed
two errors. First, he did not reward Smith's
good work performance appropriately, and, second, he failed to anticipate the consequences
this failure might have on Smith's future efficiency and upon the platoon's confidence in his
own leadership.
It is not clear whether the platoon had an
established promotion policy based. on performance. If not, this was a flaw in the leader's
procedure. Such a policy, announced and well
understood, would let each man in the platoon
know the standards by which he is judged so he
can predict where he stands in terms of those
standards.

Sergeant First Class Roberts returned from
emergency leave and found out that during his
absence, Private First Class Jones had been
promoted to specialist fourth class. At his first
opportunity, he told Lieutenant Taylor, his
platoon leader, that he was disappointed be·
cause Private First Class Smith did not get the
promotion. He said that Smith had worked hard
for promotion and deserved it more than Jones.
Sergeant First Class Roberts further stated
that Smith was mad because he had not been
promoted and requested that Lieutenant Taylor
talk to him about it. Lieutenant Taylor responded, "No, sergeant, I don't think that'll be
necessary. If he feels that bad about it, give him
a 8-day pass and tell him he'll be on the next
promotion list."
DISCUSSION

A soldier's performance indicates his ability to
do the work and his motivation to do it well. If
either ability or motivation is low, performance
is likely to suffer. A soldier's motivation to
perform depends primarily on: his conviction
that he can succeed if he tries; his belief that his
leader will reward him for good work; the value
he places on the reward; and his estimate of the
probability that he will be punished if he does
not try to perform.
To the leader, this means that his men's motive,.
tion to perform is based on the relationship of
his system of rewards and punishment to their
performance. If the leader does not base revard s and punishment on performance, his

Lieutenant Taylor's knowledge of his men was
faulty. He should have had up-to-date information on all the men in his platoon, based on
systema~ic evaluation of their efforts derived
from close personal observation supplemented
by reports from his NCOs.
Whatever the reason for Lieutenant Taylor's
failure, it curtailed Smith's motivation to
perform well on future assignments. Furthermore, it was a blow to the platoon's confidence
in Lieutenant Taylor's leadership.
If Lieutenant Taylor had understood how and
why Smith was likely to be affected, he could
have recovered Smith's usefulness to the
platoon. He should have let Smith know that
performance was still the basis for reward and
punishment, that he was not responsible for his
own failure to get promoted, and that he was
still a valued member of the platoon. One way to
do this would be to talk privately with Smith,
commend him for his past performance, and
promise Smith that he would be put in for
promotion next time.
The platoon leader did not utilfae his NCOs in
making an important decision. Decisions can
be made more intelligently by the leader if he
consults with them to fill gaps in his own knowledge. Furthermore, the support he gives his
noncommissioned officers by consulting with
them on decisions is a determinant of the
amount of control they have over their own
subordinates. If squad members see that their
squad leader has influence with the platoon
leader, they will respect and obey him more
readily.
Stuclles-17

i

I
J
!

FM 22-100

This situation also entails an occurrence of
failure to use good advice from subordinate
leaders. As soon as the platoon sergeant saw the
platoon leader, he commented that Smith was
"mad" about being left off the promotion list
and suggested that it might make Smith feel
better ifthe platoon leaderwould talk with him
about it. This suggestion might have saved the
situation, had the platoon leader accepted it.
The platoon leader's reaction to the knowledge

that the incidei:it had upset Smith was too
casual. The kno'Wledge that one of his men is
badly, upset about something should cause a
leader to act at once to learn the circumstances
and to attempt corrective measures. Giving
Smith a 3-day pass was a poor solution. Smith
could not have interpreted this as a reward for
his good past performance. He must, instead,
have resented it as an attempt by the platoon
leader to "smooth things 0 ver."

' ( ':
'.J'

FM 22-100

him personally. He told his platoon sergeant,
SFC Jones, to take the man to the barracks,
assign him to a squad, and give him some time
to get squared away.
Early the following day, SGT Brown rushed up
to LT Watson and said, "Sir, we're having trouble with Smith, that new inan SGT Jones putin
my squad! He started a fight with one of iny
men, and, when I broke it up, he mouthed off to
me! I didn't want to hit him, so I sent him over
to the orderly room. You had better go talk to
him."
DISCUSSION

The company commander.informed LT Watson
that he was getting a ,replacem:en.t foir. his
platoon, He further stated that· bhe ma<µ< :had
been in trouble in ."C~': .Com<pan\Vi for fiirh1>ing
and was being reassigned withiin the»b.att111Uen.
LT Watf!on told the coqlpany commande1nthat
as Jong as the new man did his job and·stayed
out of trouble, he.would get along fine.
An hour later when the replacement arrived, LT
Watson met him, welcomed him to the unit, but
indicated he was too busy to interview or orient

The manner in which a leader handles new
members of his unit determines to a large
extent their future performance in his unit. If
they do not know what is required of them or
have problems which interfere with their work,
they cannot reasonably be expected to perform
well. Further, if they are not properly oriented,
they may, under some circumstances, impair
the efficiency of a smoothly functioning unit.
A leader's orientation. of new men generally
consists, in part, of: getting background information on them, their experiences, and their .
past tra,ining;, explaining unit policies and
SOP; and. making them feel welcome as
J;ll,embe~s of the uµit.An. intervdew and orienta"
tlon of this t;Yipe, should be conducted by the
leaders at
levels, of the new men's chain of
command (f.e., platoon leaders, squad leaders,
and fire team leaders). This will integr11te new
men into the unit's activities quickly and minimize adjustment problems that might otherwise
occur.

all

FM 22-100

humiliated the man by making him demon·
strate, with the squad looking on, that he knew
his left hand from his right. This was a bad
technique for two reasons: If Private Harvey
actually was confused and unable to do better,
this treatment could have made the situation
worse by upsetting him further. The humilia·
ti on would have made him feel as if he had lost
status with respect to the other members of the
squad. This will inevitably produce resentment
and loss of motivation in the man critiqued and
in others present bee a use the same might
happen to them at some future time.
The squad leader also spoke in a derogatory
manner to his entire squad comparing them
with "recruits.'' For the same reasons as those
given above, such action can hardly be expected
to have good results.

dl:fiTU

Sergeant Payne was drilling his squad in prep·
aration for the company drill competition that
was to take place on Friday afternoon when he
angrily shouted, "All right, Harvey, what's
wrong this time? Don't you know your left foot
from your right? Show me your right handnow your left. OK! At least you know your left
from your right! If you men would listen to the
cadence and stop looking at each other's heels,
you wouldn't have any trouble staying in step!
You look like a hunch of recruits!" One of the
men inquired, "Sergeant, you aren't supposed to
give a facing movement when we're at present
arms? You did . . ." The sergeant responded,
"At ease, back there! I'm in charge here, an.d I
give the orders. Now, let's try it again. You
might as well decide to do it right; you'll he out
here until you do!"
DISCUSSION

An important aspect of leadership is proper
critiquing. This is informing a unit about past
performance in such a manner that it improves
future performance. Critiquing must be con·
ducted in an unemotional, objective, and non·
punitive atmosphere. The degree of motivation
and the capability of a squad is determined, to a
great extent, by the quality of critiquing.
In this situation, which illustrates a poor
method of critiquing, the squad leader made
several serious leadership errors while critiquing his squad's drill.
First, in an emotional and degrading manner
he berated a man who made errors. Instead of
trying to find the source of the man's trouble, he
Studiet-20

When one of the men tactlessly pointed out that
he had given an incorrect order during the drill,
the squad leader "pulled rank" rather than acceptingthesuggestion. Although this suggestion
could have been made more tactfully, negative
reactions of the type illustrated are never appropriate. The men generally believe them to he
characteristic of leaders who are insecure in
their positions ofleadership. Negative reactions
tend to he highly resented by everyone. Willingness to admit errors, especially when they are
apparent to one's men, is an important attribute of good leadership.
He also told the squad in a caustic manner that
they would drill until the performance was
"right." This, in essence, was using prolonged
but needed training as a threat rather than as a
way to correct a weakness. The men would soon
regard the needed training as a form of punish·
ment.
In general, a well-calculated burst of anger is
appropriate only if it is clearly evident that the
men are performing badly because of a lack of
motivation to do better. This rarely is the case.
In this situation, the men have everything to
gain from doing a good job, and little to lose.
Unless antagonized by the supervision they are
getting, they probably are as interested in doing
a good job as their leaders are. When this is the
case, anger and threats are inappropriate and
improper.
The squad leader in this situation evidently
wanted his unit to win the squad competition.
Since they did not measure up to his standards
when he thought they could, he reacted emotion·
ally and belligerently. This would not improve
the men's performance. It would only underminetheirtrust and respect for their leader.

FM 22-100

motivation to perform and define in some measure the standards by which the leader judges
performance.
The leader's actions in this situation were uniformly good. He set high performance standards for his men, promised a tangible reward
for meeting these standards, and provided the
reward.
Everyone likes to belong to a crack unit. The
platoon leader evidently was trying to build his
platoon into such a unit, as he said to the men,
"I'd like our platoon to be the best in the company this time."
Realizing that the job ahead would require a
special effort, the leader promised an appropriate reward for good performance. In general,
the effectiveness of such promises depends on
the extent to which the men think the reward is
worth the effort required, and on the confidence
which they have to meet the standards and thus
earn the reward.
In midafternoon Captain Swartz announced
that he was holding a weapons inspection the
following morning. Sergeant First Class
Parker, the acting weapons platoon leader, told
his men that he would like their platoon to be
the best in the company. He told them that he
had coordinated with the company commander
and that if they were in top-notch shape for the
inspection, the platoon would get a3-day pass.
The next morning Captain Swartz inspected a
few weapons and told Sergeant Parker that,
from what he had seen, the weapons were in
good shape and that he could dismiss the men.
When the captain departed, Sergeant Parker
continued the inspection.
After the inspection, Sergeant Parker told his
men that it was the best showing the platoon
had made for an inspection and that he was
proud of their performance. He stated that there
were a few discrepancies, but since they had
worked so hard the night before getting things
ready, they could wait until Monday to correct
them. After telling his men that he had cleared
the 3-day pass with the company commander, he
dismissed the platoon for the long weekend.
DISCUSSION

A leader must provide rewards appropriate to
the work performance of his men. This may
involve verbal praise or concrete rewards or
both. Rewards should be proportional to the
amount of effort his men expend to earn the
reward. They serve to maintain the platoon's

During the inspection itself, the company commander inspected only a part of the weapons
and equipment, complimented the men on a job
well done, and left. Although men would rather
not have inspections, it is frustrating for them
to work hard getting ready for one and then not
be inspected thoroughly. If they have done a
good job, they want recognition for it, based on
careful inspection. They want the inspecting
officer to know they're good. They want him to
look hard and find everything right.
The company commander's action led to the
acting platoon leader's next action, that of completing the inspection himself. This was a good
substitute in that it provided a factual basis for
recognition of good work the platoon had done.
It was not a completely equal substitute for the
commander's inspection, of course, but it was
the best thing the platoon leader could do under
the circumstances.
The acting platoon leader's actions ended with
two different kinds of rewards, and something
"a little extra." After the inspection, he praised
the platoon for its good work. This, when based
realistically on performance, provides the men
the needed recognition by superiors for work
well done. It is part of the informal contract.
The platoon members lived up to their part of
the performance bargain, and in turn the
platoon leader took care of their needs. After
praising them for their good performance, he
provided the "extra" reward. Although he told
his men of the discrepancies noted during the
S.tudift-21

FM 22-100

inspection, it was with Instructions that the
discrepancies need not be corrected until the
following Monday. Finally, although it required
coordination with his company commander, he
provided the pass he had promised, again relating this second reward to the platoon's good
performance. This action probably had two

Studi....22

effects. Fil'llt, it demonstrated to the men that
their leader was willing "to go to bat" for them
when they ,did .a good job. Second, his ability to
get the pass for them demonstrated that their
leader's judgment was respected by the company commander. It.is vital that men of a unit
have these convictions about their leaders.

FM 22-100

tion against chilling during the long periods of
their "sit-down" instruction.
Men dressed this way must avoid overheating.
If a person so dressed engages in strenuous

activity, he will sweat profusely. Once jacket
and trouser liners are wet with perspiration,
they will stay wet for a long time. If worn
during a period of subsequent inactivity they
will chill the wearer as much as or more than he
would have been chilled without them. This is
what happened in this situation.
The drill sergeant's bad decision was to doubletime his men to the training area. Dressed as
they were, they were undoubtedly as soaked
with perspiration as he was when they arrived
at the training area. It could be predicted that
as soon as they stopped moving, they would cool
off and subsequently become miserable.

Drill Sergeant Norton was moving his basic
training platoon to a bleacher site about 3 miles
from the company area for a class in target
detection. The morning was bitter cold, and
Drill Sergeant Norton checked his men before
leaving to insur.e they all were wearing their
jacket and trouser liners. After moving out, he
decided to double-time the men to the training
area to get them warmed up in the last half mile
of the run, the men began to straggle, and the
drill sergeant noted that he had sweated
through his trousers. He gave the men a break
and then put them in the bleachers for training.
He then borrowed the instructor's jeep in order
to return to the company to put on dry clothes.
DISCUSSION

This situation shows how a poor decision, coupled with a subsequent poor choice of action,
will jeopardize morale and the respect the men
have for their leader.
The incident occurred in a typical training
situation during the winter months. The
weather was extremely cold, and the class for
that morning was to be held in outdoor bleachers. The platoon members were dressed in heavy
winter clothing which was necessary for protec-

Note the drill sergeant's actions at the training
site. After double-timing to the training area
with his men, he should, by then, have realized
that he had made a poor decision. He should
have marched his men, not run them. He also
should have realized that their consequent discomfort would have an adverse effect on the
morning's training. If he had considered the
condition of his men as he should have, there
would have been at least two good actions he
could have taken.
He could have requested, through the company
commander, that this training be suspended for
the morning and that some other training be
substituted in its place. Although this might
have forced him to admit a poor decision to the
company commander, it would have been a
better action to take because it would have
prevented the morning from becoming a complete loss. As it was, his platoon, after sweating
through their jacket and trouser liners, was
very cold and very likely, learned little from the
class.
In the event that suspending this training was
not feasible or that he did not wish to recommend this, the drill sergeant could have either
had hot coffee sent out or brought it out in the
jeep himself. The coffee would have served as a
stimulant and replaced to some small degree the
body heat the men were losing due to their wet
clothing. Along the same line, he could have
instructed the men to build a fire and then
given them frequent breaks in which to move
around and get warm.
As it was, he did neither. Instead of trying to
help the platoon, he borrowed the jeep and left.
Studies--23

FM 22-100

The results of this action are easy te predict.
There is a good chance that his ,me11 thought be
was unwilling to stay and share their discomforts with them--that he had l•coppl!d out."

They probably considered this an abus.e of rank
privileges. As a res~It, their morale and itheir
respect i'or this)eader probably suffered.
·

i\

''

L

;.~.

.·~·-'

"!.

·~~~

L

, ,
. (l

,•J.j'

]'·

"< ; '! '.
·,(>,

,,Ji;

'•i/,t

,. : 'l

I,

' " i .) (\ ;

.

'\•,[ ..
, 1.'

(i'..''

11'

'··'

.

.~ '• '

l ~ !'· '

1

~ '

•!ft

''!i

™22-100

BIBLIOGRAPHY/READING LIST
Aldridge, John W. In the CQU,ntry of the
YQU,ng. New York: Harper and Row, Inc.,
1970.
Argyris, Chris. Integrating the Organization
and the Individual. New York: John Wiley
and Sons, 1964.
---,,Personality and Organization. New
York: Harper and Row, Inc,, 1957.
Baier, Kurt and Nicholas Rescher, (eds). Value
and the Future. New York: Free Press, 1969.
Banner, William A. EthicB, An Introduction to
Moral Philosophy. New York: Charles
Scribner's Sons, 1968.
Barbour, Floyd B., (ed). T,he J;llack .Power
Revolt. Boston:. Porter·Sai;g,eant Pii!Jlishing
,. , . , .
. .• , .. ,
Co., 1968.

---;and Assoc. Society and Drugs. San Francisco: Jossey·Bass, 1969.
,.--, S.twlentB and Drugs. San Francisco:
Jossey-Bass, 1969.
Blumer, H. The. World of Youthful Drug UBe.
Berkeley: SChool of Criminology, University
of California .Press, 1967.
Brenner, J., R. Coles and D. Meagher. Drugs
and.YQU,M. New York: Liveright Publishing
Corporation, 1970.
Breth, Robert D. Dynamic Management CommunieationB. Reading: Addison-Wesley l"ul>iishing Co., 1969.
Brown, Claude. Manch.ild in the Promised
1:..an<l. Ne.wYork;: Signet Books, 1961S.
:~~p~n,,.~~~id ~" (El~), Looking into Leadership. Washlngt!1~': +,e,ad~rllhip Res.l>'urces,

B~~!~~=~~~e~ie~~~~fi~~:~
;.ii ,,)tf ;., \l}I,~· . " "., ' ·.
''
' .
and Row, Inc:,' 196q;' "
.in::_ln"'~;~\- ri ' ·•Brawn) ·]l)ee. Bu'f'U:Mi1,H.'1'.<Jr{J:,at;;Wa'!l-ndt1..d•Kirtee.
1
"·'

- - - , Organjzatfa:n~(~s.Y:~'iiil1i~.' ~~r,~n.:
Allyri 11itd'Bac.on,l!itl5;
'· "" · · , '. H:.<"
. irn ~ '
1'
•,>·1 •
·t·».' :·;. •t; •. ' >'.t "·~''
Bennis, Warren q.;1 Ken}l(jthJ'.>. llfmp,e.. 11.nd
Robert Chin. The Pla1111iinq,, ofJJhanq,e. New
York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., 1969.
· - - , and Phillip G. Slater. The Temporary
Society. New York: Harper and Row, Inc.,
1968.

Berelson, Bernard and Gary A. Steiner.Human
Behavior. New York: Harcourt, Brace and
World, Inc., 1964.
Bergman, Mort N. and Peter M. The Chronological History of the Negro in America. New
York: New American Li!Jrw.ry, 1969.
Blau, Peter. Ewchange and Power in Social
Life. New York: Jphn Wiley and.Sons, 1964.
- - , "The Hier&l'Chy of Authority in Organization," American J<iurnal of S.ociology. Voli
78, 1968.

' '

Blum, R. H. "Drugs and Violence," CrimeB of
V iole-ltee. (Staff Report to the National Commission on the Causes .and P11evention of
Violence. Prepared by D. J. Mulvihill and M.
M. Tumin) Washington: .Superintendent of
Documents, Us Government Printing ()ffice,
1970.

. ;f,WiJPrl'I li,q~i\\.~!rxe)ta~i an\l Winstcm, Inc.,
.-·;~·r_.-,~•.. ,.

·-·

.-

.,

'

·'>,:-

»'!

Brovn~, H, 'f/.ap •. pieNigger.Die. New York: The

"Dial l"ress, Inc.,.i969. .
Browne and Thomas.is. Cohen, (1>ds)• TheS.tudy
of I,eadership. Dan:v:ille: Interstat¢'1, 1958.
Bureau of N a!'cotics and Dangerous Drugs.
Drug Abuae. Prev!!cntion.: A ·Community
Program Guide. Wash•ington: Superintendent
of Documents, US Government Printing .Office, 1970.
---,.Drugs of Abuse. Was):iington: Superintendent of Documents, US Governm·ent
, Printi~g Office, 1970.
- - , !!act Sheets. Washin&'J;on: Superintend·
ent of Documents, US Government.Printing
Office, 1969.
'
' ·
·
Burnette, Robert. The Tortured Am~riqans.
· Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1971, ,.
Catey, J. T. The College Drug Scene. :Exi,~lewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1968.
.
Carmichael, Stqkely and Charl~s Hamilton.
Black fower. Ne,w York: Alfred Knopf, Inc,,
1007.
,·
'
.
Churchman; C. W. The Sys(ems Approac,h, New
. York: Dell Publishing Co., Inc., 1968.
,
Blb-1

FM 22-100

Cleaver, Eldridge. Soul on foe. New York: Dell
Publishing Co., Inc., 1968.
Clendenen, Clarence C. Blood on the Border.
New York: Macmillan Company, 1969.
Cohen, S. The Drug Dilemma. New York:
McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1969.
Coleman, James C. Psychology and Human Behavior. New York: Scott, Foresman, 1969.
Common Sense Lives Here. National Coordinating Council on Drug Abuse Education
and Information. Washington: US Government Printing Office, 1970.
Cone, James, Black Theology and Black Power.
New York: The Seabury Press, 1969. ·
Cyert, Richard M. and James C. March. A
Behavioral Therory of the Firm. Englewood
Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1961.
Daniels, Rober. The Politics of Prejudice: The
Anti-Japanese Movement in California and
The Struggle for Japanese Exclusion. New
York: Atheneum Puhlishers, 1968.
Deloria, Vine, Jr. We Talk, You Listen.· New
York: The Macmillan Co., 1970.
Drucker, Peter F. Age of Di8continuity. New
York: Harper and Row, Inc., 1968.
- - , The Effective Executive. New York:
Harper and Row, Inc., 1961.
- - , Managing for Results. New York:
Harper and Row, Inc., 1964.
Drug Abuse: Escape to Nowhere. Philadelphia:
Smith Kline and French Laboratories.
(Available from the National Education As.
sociation, Washington, D.C. 20086), 1967.
Dushken, David A. Psychology Today, An 'introducticm. Del Mar; Commul'licati'i:lns
Research Machines, Inc., 1970.
Einstein, S. The Use and Misuse of Drugs: A
Social Dilemma. Belmont: Wadsworth Publishing, 1970.
Etzioni, Amitai. A Comparative Analysis of
Complex Organization. New York: Glencoe
Free Press, 1962.
- - - , Complex Organization; New York:
Glencoe Free Press, 1961.
·
- - , Modern Organizations. Englewood
Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1964.
Festinger, Leon and Daniel Katz. Resea,,ch
Methods in the Behavioral Sciences. New
York: The Dryden Press, 1958.
Fiedler, Fred E. A Theory of Leadership Effec·
tiveness. New York: McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1967.
- - , "The Contingency Model: A Theory. of
Leadership Effectiveness." in Harold ·. Pro·
bansky and Bernard Seidenbert, (eds). Basic
Bib-2

Studies in Social Psychology. New York:
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., 1965.
Fletcher, Joseph F. Moral Responsibility; Situation Ethics at Work. Philadelphia: West.
minister Press, 1967.
Fort, J. Pleasure Seekers-The Drug Crisi8,
Youth and Society. Indianapolis: BobbsMerrill, 1969.
Frankene., William K. Ethics. Englewood Cliffs:
Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1968.
Frykman, John. A New Connection. San Francisco: Scrimshaw Press, 1971.
Galarza, Ernesto, Herman Ce.llegos and Julian
Se.mora (eds)~ Mea:ican-Americans in the
Southwest. Chicago: McNally and Loftin
Publishers, 1970.
Gardner, John W. The Antileadership Vaccine.
New York: Carnegie Corporation of New
York, 1965.
Gellerman, Saul W. Motivation and Productivity. New York: American Management Assn.,
1968.
. .
Gerzon, Mark. The Whole World is Watching; A
Young Man Looks at Youth's Dissent. New
York: The Viking Press, 1970.
Givertz, Harry K. (ed). Contemporary Moral
Issues. Belmont: Wadsworth Pub. Co., 1969.
Glasser, William. Reality Therapy, New York:
Harper and Row, Inc., 1005.
Goddard, D. "Social Factors Associated with
Coca Use in the Andean Region," Internationm Journal of the Addictions. New York:
Institute for the Study of Drug Addiction,
1009.
Golds'flein, J. W., J. H. Korn, W. H. Abel and R.
·N. Morgan. The Social Psychology and Epidemiology of Student Drug Usage: Report on
Phase <me. Pittsburgh: Carnegie-Mellon
University, 1970.
Grassroots. Washington: National Coordinating Council on Drug Abuse Education and
Information, 1971.
Guetzkow, Harold' (ed). Groups, Leadership and
Man. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Press, 1951.
Haas, Harold J. Pastoral Counseling with People in Distress. St. Louie: Concordia, 1970.
Haine, Mason (ed). Modern Organization
Theory. New York: John Wiley and Sons,
196-.
Hall, Edward F. The Silent Language. New
York: Doubleday and Co., 1970.
Harris, Ri<:hard. Justice; The Crisis of Law,
Order and Freedom in America. New York:
E. P. Dutton, 1970.

FM 22-100

Harris, Thomas A. Counseling The Serviceman
and Hi8 Family. Philadelphia: Fortress
Press, 1966.
--.,I'm O.K., You're O.K.. New York: Harper
and Row, Inc., 1969. Hart, H. L. A. Law,
Lf/Jerty, and Morality. California: Stanford
University Press, 1963.
Havron, Dean M. and Joseph McGrath. "The
Contribution of the Leader to the Effective·
ness of Small Military Groups," in Luigi
Petralia and Bernard M. Bass (eds). LeaderBhip and lnterplir8onal Behavior. New York:'
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., 1961.
Hays, Samuel H. and William N. Thomas. Taking Cwnmand. Harrisburg: Stackpole Co.,
1967.
Herzberg, Frederick. Work and the Nature of
Man. Cleveland: World Press, 1966.
- - , Bernard Mausr,er and Barbara Snyderman. The Motivation to Work. New York:
John Wiley and Sons,. 1960.
Hickman, Martin B. The Military and American Society. Beverly Hills: Glencoe Press,
1971.
Hollander, C., (ed). Background .Papers on
Student Drug Involvement. Washington; .US
National Student Assoei11-tl'o#;'ifl~'?; ·. ·. ' . •
Holmes, Fred R. Prejudice a-nd Diacri~n~~;
Cam We Eliminate Tk_ew:.'~Engi~:Wooil'.d~f!s:
Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1970. · , · ·· · · .·· .
Homans, George C.. ffw Hu;nan Group.' N·ew
York: Harcourt Brace and Co., 1950.
Horman, R. and A. Fox. Drug Awareness. New
York: Avon Books, 11170.
Hosokawa, Bill. Nisei: The Quiet Americans.
New York: William Morrow and Co., Inc.,
1969.
Huntington, Samuel P. The Soldier and The
State. Cambridge: The Belknap Press of
Harvard·University Press, 1957.
Hutc.hinson; C. Alan Frontier Settlement in
Me:i:ican California: The Hijar-Padras Col·
ony and Its Origins. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1969.
Issaacs , Harold. The New World of Negro
Americans. New York:. The Viking Press,
1963.
Jacobs, T. 0. Leadership and E:i:change in
Formal Organ~ations. Alexan!lria: Human
Resources
Research
Organization
(HumRRO), 1971.
Janowitz, Morris, (ed). The New Military. New
York: John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 1964.
- - , The Professional Soldier. New York: The
Free Press, 1960.

Johnson, Dewey E. Concepts of Air F<>rce Leadership. Maxwell Air Force Base: Air Force
ROTC, Air University, 1970.
Jones, K. L, L. W. Shainberg and C. O. Byer.
Drugs and Alcohol. New York: Harper and
Row, Ine., 1969.
Josephy, Alvin M. Jr. Red Power. New York:
American Heritage Press, 1970.
Kahn, Robert. Organizational Stress. New
York:. John Wiley and. Sons, Inc. 1964.
Kalish, Richard A. The Psychology of Human
Behavi<>r. (2nd Edition) Belmont: Brooks/
Cole Publishing Co., 1970.
Kaplan, Abraham. Conduct.of Inquiry. San
Francisco: Chandler Publishing Co., 1964.
Katz, Daniel and Robert Knhn. The Social Psychology of OrganiJ!ations • .New York: Jolin
Wiley and Sons, Inc., 1966.
Kern, Richard P. A Conceptual Mod<ll of Behavior Under Stress With Implications For
Combat. Training. (Technical Report 66-12)
Alexandria: Human Resources Research Off.
lee (HumRRO), The George Washington Uni~
ver.sity, 1966.
·
·
Kerper, Oj;to, (Chmn). Report of .the National
A/tvi11ofy C.ommis11ion pn Civil Disorders.
":New :y<):r!I:: B~ta:ih B<>.oks,
1968.
0
Kllli'.im, •L~~s 'j,[ ·The lmp~s8ib"6 Revolution.
New York;: Random House, 1968,
:idt~ne.'l1"1'rY L. Japa'!Wse·A~ricans: The Evolution of a Subculture. Englewood Cliffs:
Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1969,
Knowles, Louis L. and Kenneth Prewitt, (eds).
Institutional Racit1m in America. Englewood
Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1969.
Kozol, Jonathan. Death at an Early Age. New
York: Bantam Press, 1967.
Leckie, William H. The Bu/fa.lo Soldiers. Norman, Okla; University of Oklahoma Press,
1967.
Likert, Rensis. New Patterns of Management.
New York: McGraw-Hill PublishingCo., 1961.
- - - , The Human Organization: Its
Management and Value. New York, McGrawHUI Publishing Co., 1967.
Lambert, William W. and Wallace E. Lamber.
Social Psychology. Englewood Cliffs: Pren·
tice-Hall, Inc., 1964.
Lomax, Louis. The Negro Revolt. New York:
H'arper ·and Row, Inc., 1963.
Louria, D.. The Drug Scene. New York:
McGraw•Hill Publishing Co., 1970.
Malcolm X. The A-µtobif>graphy of ,Malcwn X.
New York: Grove Press, 1964.
Blb-3

FM 22-100

March, James, (ed). Handbook of Organizations. Chicago: Rand-McNally, 1965.
--and Herbert A. Simon. Organizations.
New York: John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 1958.
Marine, Gene. The Black Panthe'r8. New York:
Signet Books, 1969.
Marshall, S. L.A. Men Against Fire. New York:
William Morrow and Co., 1947.
Marvin, P. and A. Cohen. Understanding Drug
Use. New York: Harper and Row, Inc., 1971.
Maslow, Abraham H. Motivation and Personality. New York: Harper and Brothers, 1954.
---,, Toward A Psychology of Being. New
York: Van Nostrand Reinhold Co., 1962.
Massie, Joseph L. Essentials of Management.
Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1971.
McClelland, D. C. The Achievement Motive.
Princeton: Van Nostrand Reinhold Co., 1961.
McGregor, Douglas; The Human Side of Ente;rprise. New York: McGraw-Hill, Pub. Co., 1960.
- - , The Professional Manager. New York:
McGraw-Hill Pub. Co., 1967.
· ·
McGrath, Joseph E. Social Psychology. New
York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., 1964.
Menditto, J. Drugs of Addiction and Non-addiction: Their Use and Abuse. A Comprehensive Bibliography. Troy: Whitson Publishing
Co., 1970.
Model!, W. Drugs in Current Use and New
Drugs 1970. New York: Springer Publ!shing
Co., 1970.
Moquin, Wayne, (ed). Documentary History of
the Mexican American'8; ·New ¥ork: Praeger
Publishers, 1971.
Moskos, Charles C. Jr. The American Enlisted
Men. New York: Russell Sage Foundation,
1970.
.
Myrdal, Gunnar. An American Dilemma. New
York: Harper and Row, Inc., 1962.
Nabokov, Peter. Tijerina and the Courthouse
Raid. Albuquerque: University of New
Mexico Press; 1969.
National Clearinghouse for Drug Abuse Information. A Federal Source Book: Answers to
the Most Frequently Asked Questions About
Drug Abuse. Washington: Superintendent of
Documents, US Government Printing Office,
1970.

- - , Selected Drug Abuse Educatian Films.
Washington: Superintendent of Documents,
US Government Printing Office, 1970.
National Institute of Mental Health. Resource
Book for Drug Abuse Education. Wash811>-4

ington: Superintendent of Documents, · US
Government Printing Office, 1970.
New York Chamber of Commerce. Drug Abuse
ae a Business Problem. New York: Chamber
of Commerce, 1970.
Nobile, Philip (ed). The Con III Controversy:
The Critics Look At The Greening of Amer·
ica. New York: Pocket Books, 1971.
Nowlis, H. G. Drugs on the College Campus.
Garden City: Anchor Books, Doubleday,
1968.
Odiorne, George S. Management Deci8ions by
Objectives. Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall,
Inc., 1969.
Office of Juvenile Delinquency and Youth Development, Social and Rehabilitation Service,
Brotman, R. and F. Suffett. Youthful Drug
Use. Washington: Superintendent of Docu·
ments, US Government Printing Office, 1970.
Olmstea<l;Joseph ·A,, Instructor's Guide To Pe,,..
formance Counseling. Ale~andrla: f!uman
R'esources · Research
Organization
(humRRO), The George· Washington University, 1968.
Olstead, Michael S. The Small Group. New
York: Random House, fac., 1959.
Pearlman, S (ed). "Drugs on the Campus. Annotated Guide to the Literature," Internatianal Journal of the Addictions. New York:
Institute for the Study of Drug Addiction,
1969.
Petrullo, L. and B. H. Bass. Leadership and
Interpersonal Behaviqr. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1961.
·
Polsky, N. 1fl,stlers, Beats and Others. Chi. cago: Aldin Pub. Co., 1967.
Porter, Lyman and Edward Lawler.
Managerial Attitudes and Performance.
Homewood: Irwin Pub. Co., 1968.
Preble, E;. "Social and Cultural Factors Related
to '.Narcotic Use Among Puerto Ricans in New
York City," International Journal of the
Addictions. New York: Institute for the Study
of Drug Addiction, 1966.
Presthus, Robert The Organizational Society.
New York: Alfred A. Knopf Pub. Co., 1962.
Probansky, Harold and Bernard Seidenbert
(eds). Busi~ Studies in Socjal Psychology.
New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1965.
Ramsey, Paul. Deeds and Rules in Christian
Ethics. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons,

W6t

--.-, The Just War; Force ~nd Political Re-

sponsibili!y. New York: Charles Scribner's
Sons, 1968.

.

~

FM 22•100

Reich, Charles A. The Greening of America.
New York: Random House, 1970.
Rivers, Feliciano. A Mexican-American
Sourcebook. Duneller: Educational Counsulting Associates, 1970.
Rogers, Carl A. Counseling and Psychotherapy.
New York: Houghton Mifflin, Inc., 1942.
- - - , On Becoming A Person. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin, Inc., 1961.
Rose, Peter. The Study of Society. New York:
Random House, 1967.
Rozynko, V. V. Initial Steps T<JWard Evaluation of the Mendocino State Hoepital Drug
Abuse Program. Mendocino: Mendocino California State Hospital, 1970.
Sawrey, J. D. Frustration and Conflict. Dubuque: William C. Brow Pub. Co., 1969.
Schein, Edgar H. Organizational Psychology.
Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1965.
Schwartz, Barry N. and Robert Disch (eds).
White Racism. New York: Dell Publishing
Co., 1970.
Senior, Clarence. The Puerto Ricans: Strang·
era Then Neighbors. Chicago: Quadrangle
Books, 1965.
Sherif, Carolyn and Muzafer. An Outline of
Social Psychology. New York: Harper and
Row, Inc., 1966.
Shostrom, Everett L. Man, The Manipulator.
New York: Bantam Books, 1968.
Snyder, Ross. Young People and Their Culture.
Nash ville: Abingdon Press, 1969.
Simon, Herbert A. Administrative Behavior.
New York: Macmillan Co., 1957.
Smith, Kline and French. Drug Abuse Products
Reference Chart. Washington: Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, 1968.
Someone Close to Yot• is on Drugs. New York:
Human Resources Administration, 1969.
STASH B ookList. Beloit: STASH Press, 1969.
Stewart, W. (ed). Drug Abuse in Industry.
Miami: Halos Pub. Co., 1970.
Stouffer, S. A. et al. The American Soldier.
(Vol II) Combat and Its Aftermath. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1949.
Steiner, Stan. La Raza: The Mexican Amer·
icans. New York: Harper and Row, Inc., 1969.
- - - , The New Indians. New York: Harper
and Row, Inc., 1968.
Steinmetz, Lawrence L. Managing The
Marginal and Unsatisfactory Performer.
Reading: Addison-Wesley Publishing Co.,
1969.

Sterling, Dorothy. Tear Down The Walls. New
York: Signet Books, 1968.
Tannenbaum, Arnold (ed). Control in Organizationa. New York: McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1968.
Taylor, Frederick W. Scientific Management.
New York: Harper and Row, Inc. 1967.
Terry, Robert W. For WhUes Only. Grand
Rapids: William B. Erdmans Publishing Co.,
1970.
Thomas, George F. Chrietian Ethics and Moral
Philosophy. New York: Charles Scribner's
Sons, 1956.
Thompson, Victor A. Modern Organizations.
New York: Alfred A. Knopf Pub. Co., 1961.
Tiffin, Joseph and Ernest J. McCormick. Industrial Psychology. Englewood Cliffs: PrenticeHall, Inc., 1965.
Titus, Harold H. Ethics For Today. New York:
American Book Co., 1967.
Toffler, Alvin. Future Shock. New York: Random House, 1970.
Townsend, Robert. Up TM Organization: How
To Stop The Corporation From Stifling
People and Strangling Profits. Greenwich:
Fawcett Publications, Inc., 1971.
Turax, Charles B. and Robert R. Clarkhuff.
Toward Effective Counseling and Psychoth·
erapy: Training and Practice. Chicago: Aldin
Publishing Co., 1967.
Vroom, Victor. Work and Motivation. New
York: John Wiley and Son, 1964.
Wagenheim, Kai. Puerto Rico: A Profile. New
York: Praeger Publishers, 1971.
Wassmer, Thomas A. Christian Ethics For To·
day. Milwaukee: Bruce Publishing Co., 1969.
Webber, Ross A. Culture and Management.
Homewood: Richard D. Irwin, Inc., 1969.
Weber, Max. The Theory of Social Economic
Organization. New York: Glencoe Free Press,
1947. (Trans. by Henderson and Parsons.)
Weick, Karl E. The Social Psychology of Organizing. Reading: Addison-Wesley Publishing
Co., 1969.
Whyte, William F. Men At Work. Homewood:
Richard D. Irwin, Inc. 1961.
- - - , Money and Motivation. New York:
Harper and Brothers, 1955.
Whyte, W. H. Jr. The Organizo,tion Man. New
York: Simon and Schuster, 1956.
Williams, Robin M. Jr. American Society. New
York: Alfred A. Knopf Pub Co., 1970.
Wood, Robert S. M. Principles and Problems of
Ethics. New York: R. Herder Co., 1962.
Blb--5

FM 22-100

Wool, Harold. Military Specia,l,£at. Baltimore:
The Johns Hopkins Press, 1968.
Zahn, Gordon C. War, C<»iecience and Die86nt.
New York: Hawthorn Books, 1967.

Zumbardo,.Phillip and Ebbe B..Ebbesen.17ifl,uencing Attitudes and Chwnging Behavior.
Reading: Addison-Wesley Pu>blishing Co.,
1969.

i,;

''
'\,'

; 'ii

~

FM 22-100

B;r Order of the Secretary of the Army:
CREIGHTON W. ABRAMS
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Oftlcial:

VERNE L. BOWERS
Mai or General,, United States Army
The Adiutant General
Distribution :
To be distributed in accordance with DA Form 12-llA requirements for M!litazy Leadership
(Qty rqr block no. 180).
u.

s. OOVERNM:EliT PRtNTINO OFFICE ; 1974 0 ~ !Hll'>#ets

