FM 7-0 TRAINING UNITS AND DEVELOPING LEADERS FOR FULL SPECTRUM OPERATIONS FEBRUARY 2011 DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited. HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY Foreword There are several things I believe about training: • Everything we do has training value. • Time is the scarcest resource we confront in training. • The best trained units determine which limited number of training tasks they intend to master and then adapt from that known point as conditions change. • Good leaders take pride in planning, preparing, executing, and assessing training. • Training has to be credible, relevant, and rigorous to “make the scrimmage as hard as the game.” This edition of FM 7-0 builds upon earlier editions by challenging leaders to make unit training and leader development more relevant and rigorous in order to effectively prepare for future security challenges. In addition, it reflects and integrates recent doctrinal changes by— • Building closer links among ongoing operations, training management, and leader development. • Integrating Army training management into the Army force generation process. • Guiding units in the selection of full spectrum operations mission-essential tasks that support both our wide area security and combined arms maneuver responsibilities. • More closely integrating leader development activities with unit training. FM 7-0 also links to the Army Training Network portal. With the help of the Army Training Network, Army leaders can remain up-to-date on the rapidly changing tools available for training so that leaders, Soldiers, and units prepare for full spectrum operations in an environment of change. A professional force is a well trained force. As one of my mentors used to tell me, sometimes because of competing priorities you have to “fight to train.” We’re counting on Army leaders to take the principles outlined in this manual and apply them with the same passion and enthusiasm they have exhibited in our recent conflicts to keep us the well trained, versatile force we must be for the Nation. MARTIN E. DEMPSEY General, U.S. Army Commanding General U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command *FM 7-0 Field Manual Headquarters No. 7-0 Department of the Army Washington, DC, 23 February 2011 Training Units and Developing Leaders for Full Spectrum Operations Contents Page PREFACE..............................................................................................................iii Chapter 1 TRAINING FOR COMPLEX OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTS ..................... 1-1 Training to Ensure Forces are Ready ................................................................ 1-1 Training to Ensure Operational Adaptability ....................................................... 1-2 Chapter 2 PRINCIPLES OF UNIT TRAINING AND LEADER DEVELOPMENT ............... 2-1 The Army’s Aproach to Unit Training and Leader Development ........................ 2-1 Principles of Unit Training................................................................................... 2-1 Principles of Leader Development ..................................................................... 2-6 Chapter 3 ARMY TRAINING MANAGEMENT ................................................................... 3-1 The Army Training Management Model ............................................................. 3-1 Plan..................................................................................................................... 3-5 Prepare ............................................................................................................. 3-10 Execute ............................................................................................................. 3-11 Assess .............................................................................................................. 3-12 GLOSSARY .......................................................................................... Glossary-1 REFERENCES .................................................................................. References-1 INDEX .......................................................................................................... Index-1 Distribution Restriction: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited. *This publication supersedes FM 7-0, 12 December 2008. i Contents Figures Figure 2-1. The Army’s leader development model ............................................................... 2-6 Figure 3-1. The Army training management model ............................................................... 3-1 Tables Table 2-1. The Army’s principles of unit training .................................................................... 2-1 Table 2-2. The Army’s principles of leader development ....................................................... 2-7 This publication is available at Army Knowledge Online (www.us.army.mil) and General Dennis J. Reimer Training and Doctrine Digital Library (www.train.army.mil). ii FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Preface PURPOSE Field Manual (FM) 7-0, Training Units and Developing Leaders for Full Spectrum Operations, establishes the Army’s keystone doctrine for training units and developing leaders for full spectrum operations, on a rotational cycle using Army force generation (ARFORGEN). FM 7-0 addresses the fundamentals of training modular, expeditionary Army forces and developing leaders to conduct full spectrum operations in an era of persistent conflict. To emphasize that the unit mission-essential task list (METL) must reflect full spectrum operations, this manual uses the phrase “full spectrum operations METL.” Conducting effective training for full spectrum operations must be a top priority of senior leaders during ARFORGEN and during operational deployments. FM 7-0 does not answer every training challenge of today’s complex operational environments. It should, however, generate introspection on how Soldiers and units train for full spectrum operations as part of an expeditionary Army. FM 7-0 provides just enough guidance to facilitate flexibility and innovative approaches to unit training and leader development. SCOPE FM 7-0 is organized as follows: Chapter 1 discusses operational environments in which training, operations, and leader development occur. It stresses the need for the Army to prepare for full spectrum operations through unit training and leader development. Chapter 2 focuses on the Army’s principles of training units and developing leaders that apply at all organizational levels and across all components. Chapter 3 describes Army training management. It focuses on using the Army training management model to plan, prepare, execute, and assess training for units in ARFORGEN force pools. INSTRUCTIONS ON EFFECTIVE USE OF THIS MANUAL On the Army Training Network (ATN) at <https://atn.army.mil>, readers will find an electronic version of FM 7-0 with additional hyperlinks. FM 7-0 on ATN facilitates unit training and leader development by linking directly to additional details and resources. Readers are encouraged to explore ATN and take advantage of its content. The authenticated version of FM 7-0 omits the additional hyperlinks because the content of ATN is continuously under development. FM 7-0 provides the doctrinal principles for unit training and leader development, while ATN provides best practices, examples, tools, and lessons. ATN is a collaborative, cooperative environment where organizations can improve their training by learning from each other. Combined Arms Center–Training (CAC–T) monitors and integrates input to ATN that comes directly from the field. CAC–T ensures the content of ATN is aligned with FM 7-0 and pertinent Army doctrine and regulations. In any case where the content of ATN differs from Army doctrine and regulations, the latter take precedence. APPLICABILITY FM 7-0 applies to all leaders at all organizational levels. All leaders are trainers. Leaders include officers, warrant officers, noncommissioned officers, and Army civilians in leadership positions. FM 7-0 applies to the Active Army, the Army National Guard (ARNG)/Army National Guard of the United States (ARNGUS), and the United States Army Reserve (USAR) unless otherwise stated. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 iii Preface ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION FM 7-0 uses joint terms where applicable. Terms for which FM 7-0 is the proponent (the authority) are indicated with an asterisk in the glossary. Definitions for which FM 7-0 is the proponent are printed in boldface in the text. For other doctrinal terms defined in the text, the term is italicized and the number of the proponent publication follows the definition. This edition of FM 7-0 rescinds the term directed mission and slightly modifies the definitions of after action review, mission-essential task, and mission-essential task list for clarity and conciseness. FM 7-0 uses “individuals” as a collective noun for Soldiers and Army civilians. United States Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC), is the proponent for this publication. The preparing agencies are the Combined Arms Doctrine Directorate (CADD) and the Collective Training Directorate within CAC–T. Both CADD and CAC–T are subordinate to the U.S. Army Combined Arms Center. Send written comments and recommendations on Department of the Army (DA) Form 2028 (Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms) to Commander, U.S. Army Combined Arms Center and Fort Leavenworth, ATTN: ATZL–CD (FM 7-0), 300 McPherson Avenue, Fort Leavenworth, KS 66027-2337; by e-mail to leav-cadd-web-cadd@conus.army.mil; or submit an electronic DA Form 2028. Alternately, go to ATN at <https://atn.army.mil>, and use the online FM 7-0 Review Tool to submit comments and suggestions. iv FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Chapter 1 Training for Complex Operational Environments This chapter describes training to ensure forces are ready for the complexities of the operational environments they are likely to face. It also discusses how training ensures Soldiers and leaders are operationally adaptable. TRAINING TO ENSURE FORCES ARE READY 1-1. The Army is and will continue to be a combat-seasoned force capable of operating in an era of persistent conflict. However, the number of new Soldiers and civilians entering the Army each year and the nature of Army force generation (ARFORGEN) require unit training and leader development principles that ensure units and leaders are mission-ready (see chapter 3 for more information about ARFORGEN). Additionally, Army units face challenging operational environments. Numerous factors shape them, such as scientific advances, information technology, transportation, economic globalization, and the Internet, which increase the uncertainty and complexity of operational environments. CAPABILITY FOR FULL SPECTRUM OPERATIONS 1-2. Amid the wide mix of strategic and operational challenges, Army units conduct full spectrum operations: Army forces combine offensive, defensive, and stability or civil support operations simultaneously as part of an interdependent joint force to seize, retain, and exploit the initiative, accepting prudent risk to create opportunities to achieve decisive results. They employ synchronized action—lethal and nonlethal—proportional to the mission and informed by a thorough understanding of all variables of the operational environment. Mission command that conveys intent and an appreciation of all aspects of the situation guides the adaptive use of Army forces (Field Manual (FM) 3-0, Operations). 1-3. The complexity of operational environments demands that Army forces be capable of conducting full spectrum operations across the spectrum of conflict. Training must account for the environment of each operation. For example, limited stability operations may be ongoing at the same time major offensive and defensive operations are occurring in the same area of operations against conventional and irregular threats. Similarly, units may conduct sporadic offensive and defensive operations at the same time as they are focusing on large-scale stability operations. Within the United States, Soldiers and Army civilians support civil authorities, normally without conducting offensive or defensive missions. Should the Homeland ever come under attack, Army forces remain ready to conduct offensive and defensive missions simultaneously with civil support operations. Characteristics of Operational Environments 1-4. An operational environment is a composite of the conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect the employment of capabilities and bear on the decisions of the commander (Joint Publication (JP) 3-0, Joint Operations). Operational environments remain chaotic, complex, and uncertain. Conditions are difficult to anticipate. Due to the high lethality and long range of advanced weapons systems and the tendency of adversaries to operate among the population, the danger to combatants and noncombatants is significant. State and nonstate actors use military and nonmilitary resources, including diplomatic, informational, military, and economic measures. Operational environments may be foreign or domestic. They include areas not defined by geography, such as cyberspace. Operations are conducted among the people. Outcomes are measured not only in terms of their effect on the enemy’s capacity to wage war, but also on the residual effects they have on the population. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 1-1 Chapter 1 1-5. Operational environments remain dynamic. Joint, interagency, intergovernmental, and multinational partners are among the wide range of actors. Coalitions, alliances, and partnerships vary. International news organizations, using the latest technologies, provide real-time reports from the area of operations. 1-6. Cultural, demographic, and physical factors, including humanitarian crises and ethnic and religious conflicts, continue to fuel existing conflicts and spark deadly new clashes. Urban terrain and other complex terrain become havens for threats. Characteristics of Threats 1-7. Increasingly, Army forces face hybrid threats. A hybrid threat is the diverse and dynamic combination of regular forces, irregular forces, criminal elements, or a combination of these forces and elements all unified to achieve mutually benefitting effects (FM 3-0). They are ever adaptive, using increased technological capabilities. They are smart and innovative. They hide or fight within the population. Their actions cannot always be accurately predicted. Enemies attack with every means possible and at every opportunity, seeking to exploit real or perceived vulnerabilities. In a single campaign, Army forces may fight several enemies with different goals and capabilities, rather than a single enemy unified by purpose or command. 1-8. Present and future military conflicts resist traditional categorization. Formerly, major combat operations pitted large conventional forces of opposing nation-states against one another. Special operations forces were the elements of choice to conduct unconventional and irregular warfare as part of foreign internal defense missions. America’s nuclear and conventional capabilities deterred attacks on the Homeland and U.S. vital interests. These scenarios no longer characterize military conflicts. The Army today must become far more flexible, built around units at every echelon with the training, competence, and ability to apply lethal and non-lethal combat power against a wide range of threats in complex situations. This requires that the Army capitalize on its combat-hardened junior leaders and high-quality recruits through training that emphasizes mission command. MISSION COMMAND AND TRAINING FOR FULL SPECTRUM OPERATIONS 1-9. Mission command is the exercise of authority and direction by the commander using mission orders to enable disciplined initiative within the commander's intent to empower agile and adaptive leaders in the conduct of full spectrum operations. It is commander-led and blends the art of command and the science of control to integrate the warfighting functions to accomplish the mission (FM 3-0). Effective mission command requires Soldiers and leaders trained to operate in ill-defined, ambiguous conditions. Through training, Soldiers learn to act decisively while accepting prudent risks. Training assists Soldiers and leaders in developing mutual trust through a shared understanding of the unit's strengths and weaknesses. Training also reinforces the need for Soldiers and leaders to collaborate and dialog in order to achieve a greater understanding of the operational environment. TRAINING TO ENSURE OPERATIONAL ADAPTABILITY 1-10. Operational adaptability is the ability to shape conditions and respond effectively to a changing operational environment with appropriate, flexible, and timely actions (FM 3-0). Army forces must be adaptable so they can react quickly to myriad hybrid threats and conduct different operations simultaneously. Leaders and units will face complex and constantly changing environments and must train to recognize and solve complex, ill-defined problems quickly. Training must prepare units and leaders to anticipate change, identify opportunities, and take prudent risks within the commander’s intent. Army training prepares units and leaders to do this through tough, realistic full spectrum operations training at home station, at the combat training centers, and in the schoolhouses. 1-2 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Chapter 2 Principles of Unit Training and Leader Development This chapter discusses the Army’s approach to unit training and leader development. It explains the principles of unit training and leader development that serve as the foundation for Army training. THE ARMY’S APROACH TO UNIT TRAINING AND LEADER DEVELOPMENT 2-1. The Army provides combatant commanders with adaptive individuals, units, and leaders. Army expeditionary forces are trained and ready to conduct full spectrum operations in support of unified action anywhere along the spectrum of conflict. The Army accomplishes this by conducting tough, realistic, standards-based, performance-oriented training. Live, virtual, constructive, and gaming training and education enablers delivered through the training support system and integrated training environment set conditions, enhance training, and provide a means to help commanders assess training. Units train while deployed, at home station, and at combat training centers. Commanders lead and assess training to ensure the training is high quality and units and individuals meet training objectives. A training objective is a statement that describes the desired outcome of a training activity in the unit. It consists of the task, conditions, and standard. 2-2. Unit tasks are organized as mission-essential tasks. A mission-essential task is a collective task a unit must be able to perform successfully to accomplish its mission. Commanders select the few tasks their units will train and develop a mission-essential task list: a compilation of mission-essential tasks. Army training doctrine uses “full spectrum operations METL” to emphasize that units train to conduct offensive, defensive, and stability or civil support operations simultaneously. However, as the mix and intensity of operations vary, so too does the intensity of effort in training. Units vary the effort put into the tasks they train based on the actual or projected operational environment and the results of the commanders' dialog (discussed in paragraphs 3-35 to 3-36). PRINCIPLES OF UNIT TRAINING 2-3. Table 2-1 shows the Army’s principles of unit training. Paragraphs 2-4 to 2-33 discuss these principles. Table 2-1. The Army’s principles of unit training • Commanders and other leaders are responsible for training. • Noncommissioned officers train individuals, crews, and small teams. • Train to standard. • Train as you will fight. • Train while operating. • Train fundamentals first. • Train to develop operational adaptability. • Understand the operational environment. • Train to sustain. • Train to maintain. • Conduct multiechelon and concurrent training. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 2-1 Chapter 2 COMMANDERS AND OTHER LEADERS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR TRAINING 2-4. Commanders are responsible for training their units. The unit commander is the unit’s primary training manager and trainer. Commanders hold their subordinate leaders responsible for training their respective organizations. This responsibility applies to all units in both the operational Army and the generating force. 2-5. Company commanders personally manage their company’s training. A commander at battalion level and higher manages training through the unit operations officer, who develops the unit’s training plans. Commanders must continually be involved in training. Their presence demonstrates the importance of training and provides guidance and feedback to subordinates. 2-6. All unit leaders must understand the unit’s mission and the commander’s intent. This understanding allows the unit to focus on training the collective tasks that enable the capability to conduct full spectrum operations in any environment. Subordinate leader input to determining the right tasks to train to achieve full spectrum operations METL proficiency is critical. As training is conducted, commanders and subordinate leaders assess unit and leader proficiency on collective and individual tasks. 2-7. Using the principle of “train as you will fight” (discussed in paragraphs 2-13 to 2-17), commanders employ mission command in training as well as in actual operations. They tell subordinates their intent, and the subordinates determine how to achieve that intent. Leaders encourage initiative and innovation in their subordinates. Leaders support finding more effective ways to achieve the standards and meet the training objectives. NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS TRAIN INDIVIDUALS, CREWS, AND SMALL TEAMS 2-8. Noncommissioned officers (NCOs) are the primary trainers of enlisted Soldiers, crews, and small teams. Their experience and knowledge are critical to determining the right collective tasks for the unit to train. NCOs also determine the individual tasks necessary for collective tasks and, ultimately, full spectrum operations METL proficiency. NCOs ensure that the objectives of individual Soldier training and development are met. 2-9. NCOs train Soldiers and help officers train units. They develop and conduct training for their subordinates, coach and mentor other NCOs, and help train and educate junior officers. They instill in Soldiers discipline, resiliency, the Warrior Ethos, and Army Values. They ensure all their Soldiers are proficient in the warrior tasks and battle drills—regardless of mission. NCOs take broad guidance from their leaders; identify the necessary tasks, standards, and resources; and then execute training. TRAIN TO STANDARD 2-10. A task is a measurable action performed by individuals or organizations. A standard is the accepted proficiency level required to accomplish a task. The standard for training is mastery, not just minimum proficiency. Mastery of a task is being able to perform the task intuitively, regardless of the conditions. Units master tasks by limiting the number of tasks to train to a few essential tasks that support accomplishing the mission. Leaders train their organizations until they achieve the standard, which may mean training longer than planned. Training schedules include time for retraining. If units achieve the standard earlier than planned, leaders challenge the unit by changing the conditions, move on to other tasks, or finish training early. Individuals and units demonstrate their proficiency at the start of training to identify shortcomings needing attention. This helps units avoid wasting time training on a task in which they are already proficient. 2-11. Standards are part of training objectives (see paragraph 2-1). Leaders know and enforce the standards for collective and individual tasks to ensure their organization meets readiness requirements. Training developers establish standards for collective and individual tasks in training and evaluation outlines (see paragraph 3-76). Commanders establish standards if training and evaluation outlines do not provide them. 2-2 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Principles of Unit Training and Leader Development 2-12. New equipment, technologies, and tactics, techniques, and procedures drive the development of new tasks. Until the Army can standardize new tasks, commanders and other leaders may need to develop their own set of conditions and standards for training emergent tasks. The next higher commander approves these tasks, conditions, and standards, which serve as the basis for unit training. Commanders also develop standards for each training event to be conducted by the unit. The standard helps the unit determine its progress towards proficiency. TRAIN AS YOU WILL FIGHT 2-13. “Train as you will fight” means training for the mission under the conditions of expected, anticipated, or plausible operational environments. It also means varying the training conditions to improve operational adaptability, training combined arms operations, and ensuring units can operate with all types of military and nonmilitary partners. “Fight,” in the context of training, includes lethal and nonlethal skills in full spectrum operations. 2-14. Effective training challenges leaders and organizations with uncertain conditions, requiring them to adapt to evolving missions. Commanders create training conditions that force subordinate leaders to assess situations quickly and use critical and creative thinking to develop innovative and creative solutions to challenges. They learn to anticipate transitions in missions and emerging types and levels of threats. 2-15. Unified action requires that leaders understand various organizational cultures. Individuals, units, and their leaders develop cultural understanding through continuous education and by regular training with military and nonmilitary partners. In this way, they avoid cultural gaffs that could undermine relationships or even hinder the mission. Leaders develop proficiency in both cultural norms and language. Units train with their partners before participating in unified action so they can avoid lengthy adjustment periods. Commanders and other leaders replicate unified action as much as possible during training, using role players or, ideally, coordinating with the actual partners. Live, virtual, constructive, and gaming training enablers can help replicate the operational conditions, including the contributions of unified action partners. Where possible, commanders establish predeployment training relationships that mirror the operational task organization to help build the unified action team. 2-16. Developing proficiency in performing offensive and defensive tasks does not automatically translate to stability or civil support task proficiency. Similarly, units that focus only on stability or civil support tasks may have significant difficulties conducting large-scale offensive and defensive operations. Leaders instill understanding in their subordinates that simultaneous operations are the norm and not the exception. 2-17. Training provides opportunities to develop combined arms proficiency by simulating conditions that reflect full spectrum operations. Commanders develop creative training plans that train subordinate units together, organized by warfighting function, regardless of location or component. This requires the use of distributed simulations within an integrated training environment. TRAIN WHILE OPERATING 2-18. Training continues when a unit is engaged in operations. Combat builds experience, but not necessarily effectiveness. To adapt to constantly changing situations, units continue to train even in the midst of campaigns. Unit leaders use available time to rehearse mission execution and prepare for likely contingencies. They conduct after action reviews (AARs) after completing operations—and after completing intermediate tasks—to capture lessons learned for future operations. (See paragraphs 3-73 to 3-74 for more information on conducting AARs.) An after action review is a guided analysis of an organization's performance, normally conducted after a training event or an operation, with the objective of improving future performance. It includes a facilitator, event participants, and other observers. 2-19. During operations, there may not be enough time or resources available to perform the more formal training management processes found at home station. Training during operations is usually more informal and decentralized than home station training. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 2-3 Chapter 2 TRAIN FUNDAMENTALS FIRST 2-20. Fundamentals include warrior tasks and battle drills as well as full spectrum operations METL tasks. Company-level units establish the foundation. They focus their training on individual and small-unit skills. These tasks typically cover basic soldiering, drills, marksmanship, fitness, and military occupational specialty proficiency. Typically, units that are proficient in the fundamentals can more easily integrate and master the more complex collective tasks. 2-21. While in the reset force pool of Army force generation (ARFORGEN), units focus on the fundamentals (see chapter 3 for more information about ARFORGEN). Higher commanders decentralize planning and execution of individual training during this period. This helps ensure company-level units have the time and other resources to plan and execute individual and team training to build a foundation for larger unit collective training. Giving subordinates the responsibility for developing training during this time builds capable planners and effective trainers. TRAIN TO DEVELOP OPERATIONAL ADAPTABILITY 2-22. Although planning is critical to successful training, circumstances may cause plans to change. Leaders prepare for personnel turbulence and equipment shortages even though the ARFORGEN system tries to ensure personnel and equipment objectives are met before training begins. Leaders develop training, manning, and equipping contingency plans. They train their personnel to assume other positions on short notice. They know that because the unit mission could change, the time to prepare for a deployment could be greatly compressed; consequently, they prioritize training tasks to ensure the most important tasks are trained first. For example, units could begin collective training as a stand-by contingency expeditionary force, alert and deploy for a short mission, redeploy, and resume training until completion of the ARFORGEN cycle. Effective leaders understand that in uncertain operational environments, change is inevitable. UNDERSTAND THE OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT 2-23. Commanders understand the operational environment and how it affects training. They replicate operational conditions, including anticipated variability, in training. For example, the conditions and collective and individual tasks required to accomplish a mission differ depending on where the operation falls on the spectrum of conflict. Tasks required to accomplish a mission in a combined arms maneuver role can be different from the tasks required in a wide area security role. Army forces need to be proficient in both and often execute them simultaneously. Commanders use the operational variables (PMESII–PT: political, military, economic, social, information, infrastructure, physical environment, and time) and the mission variables (METT–TC: mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support available, time available, and civil considerations) to analyze the operational environment and mission as they plan, prepare, execute, and assess training. The essence of the principle is to replicate conditions of the operational environment as part of training to standard. TRAIN TO SUSTAIN 2-24. Sustain, in the context of training, refers to resiliency and endurance. Training integrates short-term objectives with long-term goals. Soldiers must be capable of operating over long stretches of time while deployed. Commanders and leaders design training to sustain the proficiency of the unit and to build the capability of individuals to sustain themselves mentally and physically for the demands of combat. Training includes mental and physical training to develop individuals who are resilient enough for frequent deployments in an era of persistent conflict. Leaders incorporate comprehensive Soldier fitness programs into training plans. 2-25. Leaders continuously assess progress of their units towards full spectrum operations METL proficiency. Once a task is trained to standard, leaders sustain that proficiency through to the next mission. Commanders look for opportunities to maintain proficiency in training events. The capabilities to sustain are inserted into training events during short-range planning. Leaders expect unit NCOs to sustain troop proficiency in warrior tasks and battle drills. 2-4 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Principles of Unit Training and Leader Development TRAIN TO MAINTAIN 2-26. Commanders allocate time for units to maintain themselves and their equipment to standard during training events. This time includes scheduled and routine equipment maintenance periods and assembly area operations. Leaders train their subordinates to appreciate the importance of maintaining their equipment. Organizations tend to perform maintenance during operations to the standards they practice in training. 2-27. Leaders ensure subordinates execute scheduled maintenance with the same intensity as other training events. Effective maintenance training ensures organizational equipment is available when needed. Maintenance training has clear, focused, and measurable objectives. As with other types of training, leaders supervise, enforce standards, complete AARs, and hold subordinates accountable. They lead by example through their presence and involvement in maintenance to underscore that maintenance training is important to readiness. 2-28. Leaders develop a sense of stewardship in subordinates. Good stewardship is learned during tough training in which individuals learn to respect and trust themselves and their leaders. Effective training also develops appreciation for the importance of well-maintained equipment and other resources. Individuals must preserve resources and make wise decisions regarding their use and upkeep. Resources include people, individual and organizational equipment, installation property, training areas, ranges, facilities, time, the environment, and funds. Leaders and subordinates are responsible for protecting these assets. Subordinates tend to follow the example leaders set. Preserving readiness requires enforcing accountability for resources. 2-29. Mission accomplishment requires individuals to be physically and mentally ready and have their equipment properly functioning and maintained. Leaders who are physically and mentally fit have a positive effect on their subordinates. Well-disciplined individuals properly care for themselves and their equipment. This sense of stewardship avoids costly and unnecessary expenditures on replacements and helps ensure that people are available and ready to deploy. This readiness ensures their safety and security, as well as that of everyone else in the organization. CONDUCT MULTIECHELON AND CONCURRENT TRAINING 2-30. Commanders structure training events to allow subordinates maximum latitude to train their units. Through multiechelon training, they ensure subordinate units have the opportunity to train essential tasks during the higher unit’s training event. Multiechelon training is a training technique that allows for the simultaneous training of more than one echelon on different or complementary tasks. It is the most efficient and effective way to train. It requires synchronized planning and coordination by commanders and other leaders at each affected echelon. 2-31. Multiechelon training optimizes the use of time and resources. This is important in an environment characterized by frequent deployments and limited resources. Commanders use multiechelon training when an entire unit trains on a single task or when different echelons of a unit simultaneously train on different tasks. This type of training helps commanders become accustomed to co-developing the context of their operational environment. Multiechelon training allows individuals and leaders to see the effects of one echelon’s execution on another echelon. This type of training offers commanders an opportunity to reduce training resource requirements. For example, when a lower echelon’s training objectives are of lesser importance than the higher echelon's, resources such as observer–controllers can be consolidated at the higher echelon to observe both echelons. While multiechelon training involves multiple echelons, the observer–controller focus can seldom exceed two echelons. 2-32. Concurrent training occurs when a leader conducts training within the scope of another type of training. It complements the execution of primary training objectives by allowing leaders to make the most efficient use of available time. For example, an artillery battery commander supporting an infantry battalion during a non-firing maneuver exercise might conduct howitzer section training while the fire direction center maintains communications with fire support officers moving with the infantry. Similarly, while Soldiers are waiting their turn on the firing line at a range, their leaders can train them on other tasks. Leaders look for ways to use all available training time. Concurrent training can occur during multiechelon training. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 2-5 Chapter 2 2-33. While large-scale training events provide the best opportunity to conduct multiechelon training, smaller scale events can provide conditions conducive to training multiple echelons simultaneously. Leaders exercise initiative and create their own training events within a larger training exercise, based on the needs of their unit and after coordination with other affected units. PRINCIPLES OF LEADER DEVELOPMENT 2-34. Leader development is deliberate, continuous, and progressive, spanning a leader's entire career. Leader development comprises training and education gained in schools; the learning and experiences gained while assigned to organizations; and the individual’s own self-development. The Army leader development model (see figure 2-1.) illustrates how the Army develops competent and confident leaders through three mutually supporting training domains. A training domain is a sphere of learning in which unit training and leader development activities occur. The training domains are institutional, operational, and self-development. 2-35. Army doctrine recognizes that each training domain encompasses training, education, and experience. Building on the knowledge, skills, abilities, and behaviors gained in the institutional and self-development training domains, commanders and leaders conduct training in the operational domain to further develop their subordinates’ leadership skills. Using various subordinate, peer, self-, and superior assessment and feedback tools, senior leaders assist junior leaders in building self-development programs to grow leadership capacity and be successful in full spectrum operations in any operational environment. Figure 2-1. The Army’s leader development model 2-36. Every Army leader is responsible for the professional development of subordinate leaders—military and civilian—and for building and sustaining the leader characteristics and skills outlined in Field Manual (FM) 6-22, Army Leadership. Leader development of subordinates is every leader’s top priority. It is an opportunity to leave a legacy. Effective training and education build good leaders, and good leaders develop and execute effective training and education in schools and units. The experience gained during assignments puts the training and education into practice and provides the skills and knowledge leaders need to be versatile, adaptable, well-rounded, competent professionals. 2-6 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Principles of Unit Training and Leader Development 2-37. Table 2-2 shows the Army’s principles of leader development. Paragraphs 2-38 to 2-50 discuss these principles. Table 2-2. The Army’s principles of leader development • Lead by example. • Take responsibility for developing subordinate leaders. • Create a learning environment for subordinate leaders. • Train leaders in the art and science of mission command. • Train to develop adaptive leaders. • Train leaders to think critically and creatively. • Train your leaders to know their subordinates and their families. LEAD BY EXAMPLE 2-38. Leaders are role models. To demonstrate good leadership is to teach good leadership. Everything a leader does and says is scrutinized, analyzed, and often imitated. The example set by leaders influences the thoughts and attitudes of their subordinates, their families, and their peers. A good example positively influences the development of subordinates. TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR DEVELOPING SUBORDINATE LEADERS 2-39. Leaders take responsibility for developing their subordinate leaders. They directly observe, assess and provide honest informal and formal feedback to their subordinates. They discuss ways to sustain and improve leader skills, knowledge, abilities, and behaviors with their subordinate leaders as often as needed. They ensure subordinates undergo experiences that enhance their skills, knowledge, abilities, and behaviors; prepare them for success; improve their adaptability; and prepare them for future responsibilities. They ensure their subordinates attend professional military education at the right time in their careers and functional training to make them effective leaders in their units of assignment. 2-40. Leaders need feedback to understand if they are meeting the standards expected of a leader. Continual feedback through counseling, coaching, teaching, and in some cases, mentoring is critical to leader development. Two-way communication helps subordinates understand expectations better and ways to improve. Counseling is straightforward but also tactful. While some leaders and subordinates may be uncomfortable with a frank approach, people cannot improve if they do not know their shortcomings. CREATE A LEARNING ENVIRONMENT FOR SUBORDINATE LEADERS 2-41. Growth occurs best in environments that provide subordinates with opportunities to overcome obstacles and make difficult decisions. Leaders encourage their subordinates to seek challenging assignments, and leaders underwrite subordinates’ honest mistakes. 2-42. Leaders learn in an environment conducive to growth. Learning comes from both successes and failures. Leaders must feel comfortable taking risks and trying new approaches to training. An environment that allows subordinate leaders to make honest—as opposed to repeated or careless—mistakes without prejudice is essential to leader development. Leaders must be adept at self-assessments and AARs to facilitate such development. Leaders must be willing to accept constructive criticism from not only their leaders but also their peers and subordinates. Ideally, leaders learn first through honest self-assessments. TRAIN LEADERS IN THE EXERCISE OF MISSION COMMAND 2-43. Leaders approach mission command training from two perspectives. First, they train themselves and their subordinates on how to conduct operations using mission command as addressed in FM 3-0 and FM 6-0, Mission Command: Command and Control of Army Forces. Second, they follow the principles of mission command in training management. Specifically, they tell their subordinates the purpose for training and the end state they expect from it, but they leave the determination of how to achieve the end state to the subordinate. As appropriate, they provide guidance requested by the subordinate leader. Employing mission 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 2-7 Chapter 2 command in training follows the principle of “train as you will fight.” Using mission command principles improves not only mission command skills, but it also encourages risk-taking, initiative, and creativity. TRAIN TO DEVELOP ADAPTIVE LEADERS 2-44. The Army continues to succeed under the most challenging conditions because Soldiers and Army civilians adapt to unexpected situations. Operational adaptability begins in the schools and is then put into practice during tough, realistic training situations—well before leaders are engaged in full spectrum operations. 2-45. Knowing that change will occur, effective leaders plan for it and develop potential contingency plans to mitigate the effects of change. Effective leaders also look for indicators that change is about to occur so they can ease the transition effects. 2-46. Placing subordinate leaders into changing, unfamiliar, and uncomfortable situations in training helps foster operational adaptability. The lessons they learn help develop intuition, confidence, and the ability to “think on their feet.” 2-47. The Army trains leaders for their next position before they assume it. Cross-training provides unit depth and flexibility and builds leader confidence. TRAIN LEADERS TO THINK CRITICALLY AND CREATIVELY 2-48. Critical and creative thinkers—  Are open-minded and consider alternative, sometimes non-conformist, solutions and the second and third order effects of those solutions.  Collaborate with other unit members for help in analyzing and red-teaming solutions.  Make timely, informed decisions.  Are adept at honestly assessing their own strengths and weaknesses, and self-prescribing ways to sustain strengths and overcome weaknesses. The Army develops leaders able to solve difficult, complex problems. Leaders should be able to recognize the issue, quickly ask the right questions, consider a variety of alternative solutions, and develop effective solutions. They should be comfortable making decisions with minimal information. Army leaders employ the design methodology described in FM 5-0, The Operations Process. TRAIN LEADERS TO KNOW THEIR SUBORDINATES AND THEIR FAMILIES 2-49. Every leader should know his or her subordinates at least two levels down—their strengths, weakness, and capabilities. An effective leader maximizes a subordinate’s strengths and helps him or her overcome weaknesses. Similarly, an effective leader provides advice, counsel, and support as subordinate leaders develop their own subordinates. 2-50. Family well-being is essential to unit and individual readiness. The Army trains leaders to know and help not only the subordinates, but also their families. Training ensures subordinate leaders recognize the importance of families and are adept at helping individuals solve family issues and sustain sound relationships. 2-8 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Chapter 3 Army Training Management This chapter discusses the Army’s model for training management, which is derived from the operations process. It explains planning, preparation, execution, and assessment of training. THE ARMY TRAINING MANAGEMENT MODEL 3-1. Unit training and leader development form the bedrock of Army readiness. They enable units and leaders to accomplish their missions and overcome the challenges they will face under any conditions. Leaders manage unit training and leader development to ensure successful full spectrum operations. 3-2. All units ensure effective unit training through sufficient planning, quality preparation, disciplined execution, relevant assessment, and continuous leader involvement. Effective unit training results from a sound analysis of the unit’s mission and its ability to accomplish the mission. The unit’s current training readiness level versus its required training readiness level to meet mission requirements drive the tasks that the unit must train. A task is a measurable action performed by individuals or organizations. 3-3. Leaders plan how they will develop their subordinate leaders—through training, education, and experience in the three training domains—with the same attention to detail that they give to developing unit training plans. Units that are not designated as a deployment expeditionary force or contingency expeditionary force face a different challenge. These units must sustain readiness to conduct their day-to-day mission. Figure 3-1. The Army training management model 3-4. Figure 3-1 illustrates the Army training management model, which is derived from the operations process. Units first identify the few critical full spectrum operations mission-essential tasks to train. Then they plan, prepare, execute and assess the training. The same process applies to leader development. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 3-1 Chapter 3 Leaders identify and synchronize unit training and leader development objectives and the resources necessary to achieve those objectives. They provide sufficient guidance to help subordinates achieve unit training and leader development objectives. They use mission command and enable their subordinates to determine how they will achieve the training objectives. Preparation ensures the conditions are correct and the enablers are available and ready. After execution, feedback and assessment help units determine if re-execution is needed. Feedback, in this context, refers to the transmission of verbal or written evaluative or corrective information about a process or task to individuals and organizations. THE COMMANDER’S ROLE IN TRAINING 3-5. Using the mission as the foundation, the commander, working with subordinate leaders, determines the tasks the unit will train. Unit leaders understand the unit's mission and the expected operational conditions to replicate in training. From this, the commander identifies collective tasks to train and the associated risks of not training other collective tasks to proficiency. The conditions are either those described in the higher unit's training and leader development guidance, or those likely to be encountered in a mission. The commander visualizes the unit's required state of readiness for the mission and the training necessary to achieve full spectrum operations mission-essential task list (METL) proficiency, given the commander's assessment of current task proficiency. The commander describes the training plan in training and leader development guidance or operation orders and directs its execution. By participating in and overseeing training and listening to feedback from subordinates, commanders assess the unit's full spectrum operations METL proficiency and whether the training being conducted contributes to mission readiness. RESERVE COMPONENT TRAINING RESPONSIBILITIES 3-6. Except for time allocated to Army force generation (ARFORGEN) force pools, training management in the Reserve Component generally mirrors the Regular Army. Training management for Army National Guard units in a Title 32, United States Code, status is exercised by the state governor through the state’s adjutant general. Army Reserve units are under Title 10, United States Code. United States Army Reserve Command has administrative control of Army Reserve units based in the continental United States. Department of the Army (DA) provides the responsibilities for training Reserve Component units through guidance and orders. TRAINING UNITS IN ARMY FORCE GENERATION FORCE POOLS 3-7. Units in ARFORGEN develop long-range training plans that focus on established readiness aim points such as manning, equipping, and training levels. For ARFORGEN units, the long-range plan covers the period leading up to at least one readiness aim point. DA develops aim points and promulgates them through regulation and policy. However, higher and subordinate commanders collaboratively determine the time line for the subordinate’s long-range plan. 3-8. The more time a unit has between deployments, the more time the commander has to develop its task proficiency. However, as the time between deployments decreases, training requirements may become more centralized, the need for professional military education and functional course mobile training teams at home station may increase, and the combat training centers’ observer–controllers may become observer– trainers and support training that would normally be completed at home station. 3-2 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Army Training Management Army Force Generation Force Pools 3-9. ARFORGEN is the process for building a unit’s capability to conduct full spectrum operations over time. The process consists of three major force pools: (1) reset, (2) train/ready, and (3) available. These periods have different unit training and leader development requirements, manning and equipping objectives, degrees of decentralization, and readiness goals. Commanders consider these factors when developing unit training and leader development plans. Readiness objectives at key points throughout the cycle help determine resource requirements and measure unit capabilities at these points. Two conferences help commanders identify, coordinate, and establish resources for training during ARFORGEN. The first, the Training Synchronization and Readiness Conference helps commanders schedule resources for conducting training throughout the unit’s ARFORGEN process. The second, the Reset Synchronization and Readiness Conference ensures coordination of all events and training resources required for reset. (Visit the Army Training Network (ATN) at <https://atn.army.mil> for more information about ARFORGEN.) Reset Force Pool 3-10. The reset force pool provides family and Soldier recovery time and begins rebuilding a unit's full spectrum operations METL proficiency. DA policy determines the duration of the force pool. This force pool protects time for the unit to focus on the mental and physical fitness of Soldiers and their leaders. Depending on the recent training or deployment activity of the unit, commanders and leaders plan and prepare for reintegration of Soldiers and families, recovery of equipment and new equipment training, and reception of new Soldiers. There are no collective training requirements above section or team level for units during this force pool. Junior leaders plan, prepare, execute, and assess training in fundamental skills at the individual, crew and section level. Training management is decentralized, giving junior leaders the latitude to manage training within the commander's intent. Leaders send Soldiers to professional military education and functional training. Leaders develop and begin implementation of their plans to train, educate, and provide the right experiences for subordinate leaders. The latter part of this force pool is devoted to individual training and education, team building, and preparing the unit to conduct collective training in the next force pool. Leaders assess the planning, preparation, and execution of the limited individual and small-team training done by subordinates and provide feedback and assessments to facilitate corrective actions. Train/Ready Force Pool 3-11. The focus of leaders during the train/ready force pool is to provide subordinate leaders with experience and ensure the unit achieves proficiency in the collective tasks essential to improving its core capabilities, or accomplishing the unit's mission as a contingency expeditionary force or deployment expeditionary force. While in this force pool, units train to improve full spectrum operations METL proficiency against a known threat in a known operational environment or against a hybrid threat in a potential contingency operation. Training events that help measure readiness for known or contingency missions are interspersed throughout the force pool. The key to a successful train/ready force pool is selecting the few, right tasks to train and replicating an appropriate operational environment. Those tasks and the replicated training environments provide units and leaders with the ability to adapt to new missions during a deployment or to contingency missions. 3-12. Training during the train/ready force pool focuses on collective training to achieve directed readiness levels. The unit changes the focus of its training after achieving the appropriate readiness level to prepare for its contingency mission or named operation. If sufficient dwell time is available, units train to regain skills that atrophied during their last rotation. Subordinates determine how to meet the commander’s intent for training, conduct exercises, and retrain as necessary. Leaders coach as subordinates execute tasks, and help facilitate after action reviews (AARs) on not only task execution but also how well leaders managed the training. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 3-3 Chapter 3 3-13. Operational Army units prepare for their mission by training at home station and by executing training events, such as combat training center exercises. A maneuver combat training center rotation for a brigade combat team (BCT) designated as a contingency expeditionary force unit focuses on full spectrum operations METL proficiency earlier in the ARFORGEN train/ready force pool, to increase readiness sooner to meet potential surge force requirements. A maneuver combat training center rotation for a BCT designated as a deployment expeditionary force unit focuses on theater-specific proficiency later in the train/ready period, in order to provide a mission rehearsal exercise just prior to the actual deployment, and after the unit has increased personnel strength and received key leaders. Available Force Pool 3-14. During the available force pool, units will deploy on an operational mission or contingency operation, or they will build capacity to face a hybrid threat. The primary goal during a deployment is mission accomplishment. However, as possible, commanders train to sustain full spectrum operations METL fundamentals and correct any operational deficiencies. The deployment provides leaders with learning through experiences that are difficult to replicate in training or education venues. Training during deployments is usually decentralized. Units available to deploy on a contingency mission continue to train to sustain proficiency on collective tasks that support the unit's full spectrum operations METL until they are alerted for a specific mission. Leaders begin planning for the reset force pool, assessing both unit readiness and achievement of leader development objectives. ARFORGEN units both deployed and not deployed reset at the completion of the available force pool. 3-15. Units continue to train after deployment. Planning, preparation, execution, and assessment of this training are decentralized to the lowest level possible. ARFORGEN units that are not deployed train to sustain capabilities built during the ARFORGEN cycle, continue to execute training events, and may undergo a combat training center rotation or participate in a major Army or joint exercise. During the available force pool, commanders conduct mission analysis and build a training plan that covers at least the reset force pool. Commanders leverage home station support to help develop the plan and the resources necessary to execute the plan. Training Supervision 3-16. Unless modified by directive or tasking, the Army commander with administrative control of a unit oversees unit training. Once assignment or attachment occurs, the gaining commander becomes responsible for not only the unit’s training, but also for keeping the providing commander informed on the unit’s capabilities before it redeploys. 3-17. Training oversight is collaborative. During ARFORGEN, for units with an assigned mission, the providing commander involves the gaining commander as part of the training management process. The providing and gaining commanders share information, resources, time, and agree upon guidance to ensure the unit trains on the right tasks under the right conditions to accomplish the mission. This mutual involvement begins with the assignment of a mission to the unit and ends when the unit returns from deployment to enter the reset force pool of ARFORGEN. TRAINING UNITS NOT IN ARMY FORCE GENERATION FORCE POOLS 3-18. Generating force units and forward-deployed units perform their mission every day. Most nondeploying units conduct decentralized training to minimize the effect training has on operations. 3-4 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Army Training Management 3-19. Units not in an ARFORGEN force pool follow the same plan-prepare-execute-assess training model. The major difference is that units not in an ARFORGEN force pool may not have a standardized full spectrum operations METL. In this case, commanders, directors, and leaders develop a full spectrum operations METL for their mission. Commanders consider a unit’s table of organization and equipment or table of distribution and allowances mission, plans or orders, higher command’s guidance, and doctrinal principles. Each organization’s full spectrum operations METL supports and complements the full spectrum operations METL of its higher headquarters or the headquarters it supports. The full spectrum operations METL is a statement of tasks unconstrained by resources required to accomplish the unit’s mission. When mission-essential tasks involve experiments, support of emerging doctrine, or nonstandard tasks, commanders establish training objectives (tasks, conditions, and standards) based on their professional judgment, guidance, and observations, insights, and lessons from similar operations. The higher commander approves these training objectives. PLAN 3-20. Planning is the process whereby the staff translates the commander’s vision of full spectrum operations METL proficiency into training events. The commander identifies the required level of full spectrum operations METL proficiency and allocates necessary resources. (See Field Manual (FM) 5-0 for a thorough discussion of planning.) Training is formally planned at company level and above. Platoons and squads do informal planning to ensure they can execute the long-range training plan. 3-21. Training plans link the collective tasks to train and the assessment of proficiency in those tasks to the training events needed to achieve the commander’s visualized end state. The long-range training plan describes this linkage. Plans remain flexible. Effective leaders expect and anticipate change. They adapt their plans to accommodate changes and mitigate turbulence. Commanders use short-range planning and orders to adapt to changes in the long-range plan. THE UNIT FULL SPECTRUM OPERATIONS MISSION-ESSENTIAL TASK LIST 3-22. DA standardizes certain unit full spectrum operations METLs (see paragraph 2-2). This standardization ensures that like units have like capabilities. Full spectrum operations METLs also inform gaining commanders on the capabilities a modular unit brings to training or operations. 3-23. Every full spectrum operations METL standardized by DA is composed of full spectrum operations mission-essential tasks and task groups. Full spectrum operations mission-essential tasks are derived from the unit’s table of organization and equipment or table of distribution and allowances mission and reflect capabilities the unit must have. Task groups are a set of collective tasks necessary to accomplish a specific part of a full spectrum operations mission-essential task. For readiness reporting purposes, full spectrum operations mission-essential tasks and task groups do not change, regardless of the unit’s mission. Given the expected operational environment and the unit’s current readiness, commanders prepare their unit for its mission by selecting and training a small number of collective tasks that support selected task groups. Determining the Tasks to Train 3-24. The unit’s mission, anticipated operational environment, and time available determine the tasks groups and collective tasks a commander selects to train. Because leaders must be able to anticipate change and adapt to changes in the operational environment and mission, identifying the right tasks to train is critical to mission success. 3-25. The commander’s mission analysis begins with the unit’s mission. Regardless of whether the mission supports a named operation, a contingency operation, or building a specific capability, commanders conduct a mission analysis to determine the capabilities the unit must have to accomplish the mission. Mission analysis leads commanders to the task groups and collective tasks the unit will train. Commanders do not attempt to train all the task groups and supporting collective tasks that support their unit’s standardized full spectrum operations METL or all the capabilities specified in the unit’s table of organization and equipment. Instead, they strive to train fewer tasks better. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 3-5 Chapter 3 3-26. Based on the analysis of the mission and guidance, the commander works with subordinate leaders to determine the tasks to train and the operational environment conditions that they will replicate in training. The unit focuses its training on those collective tasks that directly support the mission. When selecting collective tasks to train, commanders seek high-payoff collective tasks that not only support the mission, but also make the unit versatile, giving it the ability to transition to unexpected missions quickly. 3-27. Units subordinate to units with standardized full spectrum operations METL use their mission, guidance from higher, and the higher unit’s task groups and collective tasks to conduct a commander’s mission analysis to develop their full spectrum operations METL. Subordinate commanders ensure their full spectrum operations METLs support their higher unit’s full spectrum operations METL to ensure the higher unit can accomplish its mission. 3-28. Units that do not have a standardized full spectrum operations METL and are not subordinate to a unit that has one develop their full spectrum operations METL based on their table of organization and equipment or table of distribution and allowances mission statement, assigned mission and guidance from their higher headquarters, and the unit full spectrum operations METLs they normally support. Commanders of these units can use doctrinally approved task groups and collective tasks to establish their full spectrum operations METL. However, if doctrinal tasks do not fit the mission, commanders develop tasks, conditions, and standards to allow the unit to train to achieve the capabilities in the mission statement. These tasks become the unit’s full spectrum operations METL. Higher unit commanders approve the unit-developed tasks and full spectrum operations METL during the commanders’ dialog (see paragraphs 3-35 to 3-36). 3-29. To establish training objectives, commanders not only understand their unit’s mission, they know the expected operational environment conditions the unit will face. Based on the operational environment, commanders adjust the task groups and collective tasks to be trained. They then determine the conditions needed to replicate the actual operational environment if deploying or assigned a contingency mission or a notional environment based on a hybrid threat (if the unit is training to build capability). 3-30. Time is the final consideration for determining the selection of tasks to train. During ARFORGEN, as the dwell time between deployments increases, commanders have more time available for training. Commanders choose between training on more tasks or spending more time on selected tasks. When dwell time reaches a favorable ratio, units will have the opportunity to train on capabilities they did not require for the last ARFORGEN cycle. If a unit is alerted for a near-term deployment, training may become more centralized at a higher echelon of command. The tasks to train and the training environment may change to meet the needs of the mission. During mission analysis, commanders identify the risks associated with not training or minimally training certain task groups or collective tasks. Commanders then determine appropriate mitigation measures. The higher commander collaborates with the subordinate commander to identify the risks and mitigation measures associated with not training certain tasks and underwrite those risks during the dialog. 3-31. Time and resources are limited, so not all tasks can be trained to proficiency. Commanders focus training on the collective tasks most essential to mission accomplishment and that facilitate operational adaptability. Full Spectrum Operations Mission-Essential Task List Approval 3-32. The next higher commander approves the collective tasks the unit will train to achieve task group proficiency. The next higher commander approves battalion and company full spectrum operations METLs, normally during the commanders’ dialog. COLLABORATION 3-33. Collaboration supports successful unit training. Commanders, their staffs, and subordinate leaders collaborate to facilitate parallel planning, understanding of requirements, de-confliction of resources, and co-creation of the training context. Commanders conduct dialog with subordinate commanders to ensure the higher commander’s intent for unit training and leader development is understood and that the subordinate commander has the necessary resources to execute training to standard. 3-6 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Army Training Management Opportunities for Collaboration 3-34. Opportunities for formal dialog exist throughout training—specifically, in the commanders’ dialog and the training briefing. Opportunities for informal dialog and collaboration occur during training meetings and event AARs. These discussions not only guide commanders through training management, but they are also excellent leader development opportunities for the senior commander to share knowledge and experience with the subordinate leader. Commanders’ Dialog 3-35. The unit commander and the commander responsible for overseeing training conduct a formal dialog to agree upon expectations for training during ARFORGEN. The commanders’ dialog addresses the results of the unit commander’s mission analysis. Dialogs occur at company level and above. If feasible, the dialog includes the gaining commander if the unit commander is a deployment expeditionary force. For brigades, the dialog includes any units that will be part of the deployment force package. 3-36. The purpose of the dialog is to review the collective tasks critical to accomplishing the mission, the conditions for training, and the unit commander’s assessment of proficiency in the collective tasks to be trained. The dialog also covers how all units in the force package, regardless of location or component, will be included in the training plan. Commanders discuss how the gaining commander will be involved in training. The dialog allows commanders to agree on—  Commanders’ assessment of current full spectrum operations METL proficiency level and projected end state proficiency level.  Collective tasks to be trained that support the unit’s full spectrum operations METL.  Risks involved with not training other collective tasks that support the unit’s full spectrum operations METL.  How the unit training and leader development plans support operational adaptability.  How the unit will replicate operational environment conditions.  Any nonstandard or unavailable resources required to replicate the operational environment conditions.  Significant challenges to readiness. LONG-RANGE PLANNING 3-37. Once the collective tasks to be trained are determined and the commanders’ dialog has been conducted, the unit develops a long-range training plan. The long-range plan acknowledges the current proficiency of the unit in all collective tasks that are essential to the mission and charts a course to achieve proficiency in those collective tasks. The goal is to train tasks critical to mission accomplishment to a “Trained” level. The long-range plan is the roadmap for attaining that proficiency. 3-38. Beginning with commander’s intent and visualized end state, the commander backward plans the events and resources needed to achieve task proficiency. Long-range training plans lay out events and opportunities (such as schools) the unit will leverage to correct deficiencies and sustain proficiencies in tasks and to develop leaders. The commander’s intent provides a vision of the end state for unit training and leader development. The commander also allows subordinates adequate time to plan their own events and work within the higher commander’s intent. Collaboration and dialog allow subordinate units the ability to conduct parallel planning. This is an excellent means for developing leaders to be comfortable with planning and executing operations. 3-39. As a start point for determining events for the long-range plan, the commander consults various resources such as training templates, event menus, and unit-specific and functional combined arms training strategies. The Combined Arms Training Strategy Web page (located on ATN, <https://atn.army.mil>) provides options and menus for the training events that can go into the training plan to help achieve full spectrum operations METL proficiency. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 3-7 Chapter 3 3-40. The long-range plan also addresses the operational variables so that operational conditions are replicated in training. Commanders cannot duplicate the operational environment, but they can replicate realistic training conditions that provide the feel of the environment the unit will likely encounter. 3-41. The long-range plan identifies school requirements, from a functional aspect, for the unit. It also identifies professional military education requirements for individuals. 3-42. The development of the long-range plan involves collaboration among the unit commander and staff, subordinate units, the higher unit commander and staff, and the installation staff. Commanders are responsible for the training and readiness of their units but need support from other sources to build an executable plan that will help them achieve their training objectives. 3-43. Units may not have the resident expertise to train all their subordinate units; consequently, as part of the long-range plan, commanders identify, coordinate and lock-in those subject matter experts who can assist in developing leaders and training units. For example, a BCT commander may request assistance with training the fires battalion from a fires brigade commander. Support Requirements for Training 3-44. The training support required is a shared responsibility between the higher headquarters and the installation. The higher headquarters establishes training priorities and provides resources, such as evaluators, equipment, and Soldiers. The installation supports all units stationed on that installation through the garrison staff by providing facilities, logistics, and other training support services. 3-45. The completed long-range plan includes, as appropriate, school requirements, training events, the major collective tasks to be trained during each event, and the training focus for each event. 3-46. Commanders employ the live-virtual-constructive training environment, as appropriate, to help replicate the conditions in the projected operational environment, optimize training time, and mitigate resource shortfalls. The commander briefs the long-range plan to the next higher commander in order to gain concurrence with the plan and agreement on the resources that the higher commander will provide. Training Briefings 3-47. After the commanders’ dialog and after training plans are developed, commanders provide training briefings to the next higher commander. This interaction between commanders formalizes the training plan and the resources required to accomplish the plan. The training briefing focuses on unit training and leader development plans; it does not cover other administrative matters. Commanders ensure training briefings are concise. 3-48. The training briefing is a contract between commanders. The unit commander agrees to train as described in the plan, and the higher commander approves the plan and agrees to provide the resources to execute the plan. If the subordinate unit is deploying under another headquarters, the gaining commander or a representative participates in the briefing. The installation staff also participates in the briefing, since they manage the training support resources on the installation. The training briefing includes—  Assessment of full spectrum operations METL proficiency.  Collective tasks to be trained in support of full spectrum operations METL proficiency.  Training events to be conducted and how they incorporate the collective tasks.  Resources required to replicate operational environments and support execution of training events.  Challenges to executing the unit training and leader development plans. 3-49. After the training briefing, the unit commander publishes the training and leader development guidance for the long-range plan to subordinates. 3-8 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Army Training Management SHORT-RANGE PLANNING 3-50. A roadmap for attaining proficiency in the collective tasks that support full spectrum operations METL, the long-range plan describes the major training events for the unit. Short-range planning provides the details for executing the training events in the long-range plan. The short-range plan can cover months for the Regular Army and even a year for the Reserve Components, but the commander determines the timeframe based on unit requirements. 3-51. Short-range planning begins with the commander’s intent and feasible objectives for each training event. The staff and subordinate commanders develop orders that provide the concept of operations and training tasks. Subordinate leaders determine how to achieve the commander’s intent. Leaders ensure resources required for the events are identified, refined, and reserved with the installation and included in the order. Training Models 3-52. Commanders and leaders develop and use training models during short-range planning to ensure the unit achieves the right training focus within the overarching long-range training plan. Training models can help leaders manage training events to maximize event coordination and ensure that tasks are trained to standard. A standard refers to a quantitative or qualitative measure specifying the accepted levels of performance of a task. Models, however, are only aids to planning, preparing, executing and assessing; they are not lock-step processes. Training Meetings 3-53. The commander, staff, and subordinate commanders or leaders manage short-range planning at the training meeting. These meetings allow the commander to understand better the proficiency of the unit and suitability, feasibility, and acceptability of the training plan. Training meetings facilitate the collaboration necessary to ensure the commander’s intent is met. Training meetings provide commanders with bottom-up feedback on requirements, task proficiency, and quality of the training conducted. The commander uses these meetings to reallocate resources, as needed, to ensure subordinates have what they need to achieve training objectives. 3-54. The training meeting is instrumental in turning training plans into action. It is the single most important meeting for managing training in brigades, battalions, and companies. The meeting facilitates collaboration and serves as a forum for leader development opportunities. Besides helping the commander understand the unit’s training proficiency, training meetings provide a bottom-up flow of information on the specific training needs of the unit, staff, and individual Soldier; provide guidance to subordinate units; and help ensure subordinate units have sufficient resources to execute training. The training meeting is the mechanism to guide the execution of the long-range training plan by focusing on short-term training requirements. Training meetings focus on the unit’s full spectrum operations METL proficiency and help synchronize training objectives with training events and resources. 3-55. Normally, platoons, companies, and battalions meet weekly. At company and platoon level, training meetings focus on the specifics of training preparation, pre-execution checks, and execution. The company must become proficient in individual skills and small unit collective tasks to support battalion and brigade collective task proficiency. At battalion level and above, training meetings primarily cover training management—especially resourcing—issues. Meeting frequency is a function of command preference, but occurs often enough to ensure subordinate units have what they require to execute training. 3-56. Training meetings address only training and support of training, and not peripheral administrative issues. Appropriate representatives of subordinate and supporting units attend. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 3-9 Chapter 3 3-57. The commander providing a subordinate unit to another commander for an operation is ultimately responsible for the unit’s training. This responsibility includes both full spectrum operations METL and training plan approval, provisioning of training resources, and assessments of training events. The gaining commander recommends tasks that need to be trained for the assigned mission, and can help assess the training proficiency of the unit. The gaining commander shares information on developments in the area of operations which may have an impact on training, provides unit standard operating procedures, and visits training events throughout training plan execution—especially during culminating training events. LEADER DEVELOPMENT PLANNING 3-58. Commanders and other leaders do not leave leader development to chance. They plan, execute, and assess leader development activities. As commanders develop long and short-range training plans, they concurrently plan how they intend to develop subordinate leaders by taking advantage of scheduled training events. Whether the senior leader creates a detailed and formal leader development plan, or a broad and informal plan focused on the basics of leadership, the senior leader sets leader development goals and objectives. A commander develops a unit leader development plan as part of training and leader development guidance. 3-59. A unit leader development plan includes—  Leadership philosophy and expectations of subordinate leaders.  Leader development objectives in scheduled unit training events.  Subordinate leader development plans—addressing training, education, and experience goals.  Recommended reading (to include FM 6-22) and plans to discuss the reading.  Scheduled leader professional development opportunities. PREPARE 3-60. Preparation is the transition from planning to execution (see FM 5-0 for a thorough discussion of preparation). It consists of activities performed by units to improve their ability to execute the long-range training plan. Effective training execution—regardless of the specific collective, leader, and individual tasks being executed—requires adequate preparation, effective presentation and rehearsals, and thorough evaluation. Units begin preparation during planning and continue until the training event is completed. 3-61. Units use the training meeting to synchronize the preparation for training. During the training meeting, commanders ensure all resources, to include trainers, are thoroughly prepared to execute the training plan. Throughout the prepare phase, leaders continue to identify and eliminate potential training distracters to maximize training attendance and effectiveness. Preparations can include ensuring leaders and Soldiers understand task standards, training the trainers, conducting pre-execution checks, and conducting rehearsals. Several training models exist to help leaders prepare to train. TRAIN THE TRAINERS 3-62. Trainers include leaders, evaluators, observer–controllers or observer–trainers, opposing force personnel, and role players. Commanders identify them and ensure they are trained to standard and rehearsed before training begins. Training the trainers provides commanders an opportunity to develop junior leaders. Commanders ensure that trainers and evaluators are not only tactically and technically competent on the training tasks, but also understand how the training supports the training objectives, and the training objectives support achievement of full spectrum operations METL proficiency. PRE-EXECUTION CHECKS 3-63. Conducting pre-execution checks is similar to conducting pre-combat checks. Pre-execution checks ensure, for example, that equipment is ready and serviceable, trainers are prepared, training resources (such as unit equipment, land, ranges, and training facilities) are available, and leaders have conducted initial composite risk management checks. 3-10 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Army Training Management REHEARSALS 3-64. Often called a rehearsal of concept drill, rehearsals help leaders and subordinates involved in a training event understand the conduct of events and their responsibilities. Rehearsals help the organization synchronize training with times, places, and resources. A simple walk-through or sand table exercise helps leaders visualize where and when individuals are supposed to be to perform a coordinated action. Leaders visualize how training should unfold and consider branches and sequels if the training must be adjusted. Commanders and other leaders also use rehearsals to—  Identify shortcomings and deficiencies in the event training plan.  Suggest effective training techniques to subordinates.  Identify potential safety problems.  Ensure leaders and trainers understand training objectives.  Understand how trainers intend to evaluate the performance of individuals or organizations, and whether they understand how to conduct effective AARs.  Assess trainer competencies to conduct the training.  Instill confidence in the event training plan. UNIT TRAINING AND LEADER DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULES 3-65. The order developed for each event provides the details for the training event, including just enough guidance on preparation, execution, and assessment so that initiative is encouraged. Once the order is published, units can develop training and leader development schedules. The schedule normally covers one week of training; however, commanders determine how far in advance training and leader development schedules are published and locked-in (requiring the unit commander’s approval for changes). Information in training and leader development schedules includes, but is not limited to, the training audience, when and where the training will be conducted, the individual responsible for the training, the uniform, and the equipment. PREPARATION AND LEADER DEVELOPMENT 3-66. Preparation offers opportunities for leader development. As subordinates prepare for training, leaders give subordinates plenty of room to succeed, and they conduct AARs with subordinates to help them better prepare training in the future. They set the example for subordinate leaders in how they prepare for training at their level. Thorough preparation helps ensure solid performance later. As requested, leaders provide advice and coaching, which continues during execution. EXECUTE 3-67. Training execution is the culmination of the long-range plan. Execution provides the basis for assessing full spectrum operations METL proficiency—the ability of units, leaders and Soldiers to perform their mission to standard and readily adapt to any new missions. Execution occurs at all echelons, from a unified action training exercise to a first-line leader conducting individual training. Leaders use a progressive training approach, tailoring training through the short-range plan to the individual, team, or unit’s current versus desired proficiency levels. This approach saves time by building on the proficiency of highly experienced Soldiers and leaders who have been trained, educated, and developed significant experience through multiple deployments. EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING 3-68. Among the three aspects of leader development—training, education, and experience—experience is the most direct and powerful. Subordinates learn by doing. Lessons learned while making mistakes can be the best way to improve as a leader. Commanders give their subordinates the freedom to succeed and learn through their mistakes. The operational environment is not only challenging but also unpredictable. As subordinates become proficient in tasks, commanders change conditions during training events to force subordinate leaders to adapt to different, more complex challenges. Solving unforeseen problems drives leaders to use critical and creative thinking to find a solution. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 3-11 Chapter 3 MEETING TRAINING OBJECTIVES 3-69. A training objective states the task to be trained, the conditions under which training is conducted, and the standard. Units focus training execution on meeting the training objectives. This means that training is not primarily based on time. Training is executed to standard. Leaders allow enough time during execution to retrain tasks under the conditions stated in the training objectives or under varied conditions. If the objectives have been achieved and retraining is not needed, then leaders consider ending the training early to allow for a good recovery. RECOVERY FROM TRAINING 3-70. Recovery is an extension of training. A training event has not ended until recovery is complete. Recovery ends when the organization is again prepared to conduct collective training and operations. Recovery includes—  Inspecting and maintaining equipment and personnel.  Accounting for equipment, training support items, and ammunition.  Gaining insights on how to make the next exercise better. ASSESS 3-71. Commanders assess and evaluate all aspects of training management, including the planning, preparation, and execution; the recovery; and the conducting of AARs. In the training context, assessment refers to the leader's judgment of the organization's ability to perform its full spectrum operations mission- essential tasks and, ultimately, its ability to accomplish its mission. Evaluation refers to the process used to measure the demonstrated ability of individuals and units to accomplish specified training objects. Leaders continuously monitor the unit's full spectrum operations METL proficiency and the progress of the long- range plan. Commanders assess the effectiveness of the training. ASSESSMENT CONSIDERATIONS 3-72. When assessing training, commanders consider—  Their own observations and those of subordinate leaders and other individuals.  Feedback from AARs.  Results of unit evaluations. AFTER ACTION REVIEWS 3-73. Organizations conduct AARs to identify successes and challenges and apply observations, insights, and lessons to future training and operations. If necessary, organizations conduct AARs after intermediate actions are completed, not just at the end of the event. Units share lessons learned with other units on ATN, at <https://atn.army.mil>, and through video teleconferences, predeployment site surveys, and other opportunities for collaboration. Training helps correct deficiencies identified during operations. 3-74. AARs provide an excellent opportunity for units to reinforce the development of critical thinking in leaders. As an integral part of unit training, AARs help establish a learning environment where successes and honest mistakes are freely discussed among leaders, participants and observers. AARs provide a medium for units and individuals to understand what went right, what went wrong, and what could be done better in future training and operations. Sharing observations and lessons learned during the AAR and referring back to the training objectives established during planning helps units determine task proficiency and mission success. AAR discussions must facilitate future improvements in unit performance as they perform the same or similar tasks again during future training or operations. 3-12 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 Army Training Management DETERMINING EFFECTIVENESS 3-75. Commanders assess each training event through a lens focused on execution within the commander’s intent, achievement of the training objectives, and progress towards full spectrum operations METL proficiency. The training meeting is the best forum to aggregate evaluations of tasks by subordinates and the commander into the full spectrum operations METL assessment. Commanders assess mission-essential tasks as T—trained, P—needs practice, or U—untrained, in the Digital Training Management System (referred to as DTMS). Based on these assessments, commanders adjust their future training plans as needed. The commander bases a subjective assessment on observed task proficiency and whether training met objectives and supported full spectrum operations METL proficiency. Training assessments also address such areas as training support, force integration, logistics, and personnel availability. These assessments form the basis for determining the organization's training ratings for readiness reporting. TRAINING AND EVALUATION OUTLINES 3-76. Assessment begins with leaders training their units, subordinate leaders, and Soldiers to the task standards found in the training and evaluation outlines. A training and evaluation outline is a summary document that provides information on collective training objectives, related individual training objectives, resource requirements, and applicable evaluation procedures for a type of organization. Trainers access training and evaluation outlines through ATN at <https://atn.army.mil> or the Digital Training Management System (DTMS). The training and evaluation outline provides the means to help leaders evaluate task execution, and subjectively assess the unit’s ability to perform the task. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 3-13 This page intentionally left blank. Glossary SECTION I – ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS AAR after action review ARFORGEN Army force generation ATN Army Training Network BCT brigade combat team DA Department of the Army FM field manual JP joint publication METL mission-essential task list NCO noncommissioned officer SECTION II – TERMS *after action review A guided analysis of an organization's performance, normally conducted after a training event or an operation, with the objective of improving future performance. It includes a facilitator, event participants, and other observers. *mission-essential task A collective task a unit must be able to perform successfully to accomplish its mission. *mission-essential task list A compilation of mission-essential tasks. *multiechelon training A training technique that allows for the simultaneous training of more than one echelon on different or complementary tasks. *training domain A sphere of learning in which unit training and leader development activities occur. The training domains are institutional, operational, and self-development. *training and evaluation outline A summary document that provides information on collective training objectives, related individual training objectives, resource requirements, and applicable evaluation procedures for a type of organization. *training objective A statement that describes the desired outcome of a training activity in the unit. It consists of the task, conditions, and standard. 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 Glossary-1 This page intentionally left blank. References Field manuals and selected joint publications are listed by new number followed by old number. REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS These documents must be available to intended users of this publication. FM 1-02 (101-5-1), Operational Terms and Graphics. 21 September 2004. JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. 8 November 2010. RELATED PUBLICATIONS These documents contain relevant supplemental information. JOINT PUBLICATIONS Most joint publications are available online: <http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/new_pubs/jointpub.htm>. JP 3-0, Joint Operations. 22 March 2010. ARMY PUBLICATIONS Most Army doctrinal publications are available online: <http://www.apd.army.mil/>. FM 3-0, Operations. 27 February 2008. FM 5-0, The Operations Process. 26 March 2010. FM 6-0, Mission Command: Command and Control of Army Forces. 11 August 2003. FM 6-22 (22-100), Army Leadership. 12 October 2006. WEB SITES Army Training Network (ATN). <https://atn.army.mil> PRESCRIBED FORMS None. REFERENCED FORMS DA forms are available on the APD website (www.apd.army.mil). DD forms are available on the OSD website (www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/formsprogram.htm). DA Form 2028, Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 References-1 This page intentionally left blank. Index Entries are by paragraph number unless indicated otherwise. A F O after action review, FSO METL. See full spectrum operational adaptability, defined, 2-18 operations mission-essential training and, 1-10, 2-22 assessment and, 3-73–3-74 task list. operational environments, ARFORGEN, 1-1, 2-21, 2-22, 3-6, full spectrum operations, characteristics of, 1-4–1-6 3-7–3-19, 3-30, 3-35, capability for, 1-2–1-8 training principles and, 2-23 ARFORGEN force pools, full spectrum operations opportunities for collaboration, unit training and, 3-9–3-15 mission-essential task list, 2-6, 3-34 Army force generation. See 3-5, 3-22–3-32, 3-57 ARFORGEN. P L planning leader development, Army training management, commander’s role in, 3-5 leader development, 3-58–3-59 Reserve Component training principles of, 2-34–2-50, figure planning unit training, 3-20–3-57 responsibilities, 3-6; 2-1, table 2-1 pre-execution checks, 3-63 units in ARFORGEN and, 3-7– leader development, preparation and, 3-66 preparation of unit training, 3-60– 3-15 3-66 units not in ARFORGEN and, leader development planning, 3-18–3-19 3-58–3-59 principles of leader development, creating a learning Army training management model, leading by example, environment for subordinate illustration of, figure 3-1 leader development principles leaders, 2-41–2-42 assessment of training, 3-71–3-76 and, 2-38 critical and creative thinking available force pool, long-range planning, 3-37–3-43 training, 2-48 unit training and, 3-14–3-15 developing adaptive leaders, M 2-44–2-47 C meeting training objectives, 3-69 knowing subordinates and collaboration, METL. See full spectrum families, 2-49–2-50 training planning and, 3-33– operations mission-essential leading by example, 2-38 3-36 task list. See also mission command training, commanders’ dialog, 3-35–3-36 mission-essential task list. 2-43 subordinate leader conducting multiechelon and mission command, development responsibility, concurrent training, training and, 1-9, 2-7, 2-43, 2-39–2-40 unit training principles and, 3-4 2-30–2-33 principles of unit training, mission-essential task, conducting multiechelon and creating a learning environment, defined, 2-2 concurrent training, 2-30– leader development principles mission-essential task list, 2-33 and, 2-41–2-42 defined, 2-2. noncommissioned officers as See also full spectrum trainers, 2-8–2-9 D–E operations mission-essential responsibility of commanders determining effectiveness of task list. and other leaders, 2-4–2-7 training, 3-75 training as you will fight, 2-13– multiechelon training, 2-30 determining the tasks to train, 2-17 3-24–3-31 N training fundamentals first, execution of training, 3-67–3-70 noncommissioned officers as 2-20–2-21 trainers, training to develop operational experiential learning, 3-68 unit training principles and, adaptability, 2-22 2-8–2-9 training to maintain, 2-26–2-29 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 Index-1 Index T threats, characteristics of, 1-7–1-8 training principles. See principles principles of unit training, of unit training. (continued) train/ready force pool, training to standard, 2-10–2-12 unit training and, 3-11–3-13 training responsibility. See training to sustain , 2-24–2-25 principles of unit training. training adaptive leaders, training to understand the leader development principles training supervision, operational environment, and, 2-44–2-47 units in ARFORGEN and, 2-23 3-16–3-17 training and evaluation outlines, training while operating, 2-18– training the trainers, 3-62 3-76 2-19 training as you will fight, training to develop operational R unit training principles and, adaptability, 2-22 readiness, training for, 1-1–1-9 2-13–2-17 training to maintain, 2-26–2-29 recovery from training , 3-70 training briefings, 3-47–3-49 training to standard, 2-10–2-12, rehearsals, 3-64 training fundamentals first, 3-69 unit training principles and, training to sustain, 2-24–2-25 reset force pool, unit training and, 2-20–2-21 training while operating, 2-18– 3-10 training in critical and creative 2-19 responsibility for unit training, thinking, commanders and leaders, 2-4– U leader development principles 2-7 and, 2-48 understanding the operational S training leaders in mission environment, 2-23 schedules, command, unit leader development plan, unit training and leader leader development principles 3-58–3-59 development, 3-65 and, 2-43 unit training and leader short-range planning, 3-50–3-51 training leaders to know their development schedules, 3-65 subordinate leader development subordinates and their families, unit training, responsibility, leader development principles ARFORGEN force pools and, leader development principles and, 2-49–2-50 3-9–3-15 and, 2-39–2-40 training meetings, 3-53–3-57 principles of, 2-3–2-33, table support requirements for training, training models, 3-52 2-1 3-44–3-46 training objective, units in ARFORGEN, defined, 2-1 Army training management and, 3-7–3-15 training planning, training supervision for, 3-16– collaboration and, 3-33–3-36 3-17 units not in ARFORGEN, training for, 3-18–3-19 Index-2 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 FM 7-0 23 February 2011 By order of the Secretary of the Army: GEORGE W. CASEY, JR. General, United States Army Chief of Staff Official: JOYCE E. MORROW Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Army 1101402 DISTRIBUTION: Active Army, the Army National Guard, and the United States Army Reserve: To be distributed in accordance with the initial distribution number 111080, requirements for FM 7-0. PIN: 085237-000
