This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible. https://books.google.com 101.22 ; 600-80 DEPART DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY DEPUT PAMPHLET 600-80 Personnel General Executive Leadership LIB R RAR DE AN Y AL PUBLIC DOCUMENTS REFERENCE DEPARTMENT IA UN GIN IVAUG 11 1987 shape there ER S VIR OF Sede UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LIBRARY Headquarters Department of the Army 19 June 1987 X030449992 87450 1 ( OF E NT F IM DE DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY DET OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF FOR PERSONNEL WASHINGTON , DC 20310-0300 VA I IH D M REPLY TO IS ATTENTION OF To : All Leaders of the Total Army Our Army's mission generating the flexible , dynamic r landpowe required to support the global dimensions of our national strategy presents a complex and ever-growing challenge . With little or no notice , today's Army must be ready to respond to an increasingly demanding range of threats . From the urgency of counter- terrorism to the intensity of global war , the Nation's security depends on the adequacy of our preparations . This challenge , difficult in and of itself , is compounded by the relentless pace of technological and geopolitical change . Success in such an environment demands not only the readiness to meet today's threats , but the resolve to shape the future . If our Army is to be ready for tomorrow , we must do more than look beyond today . We must take innovative , decisive action based . on our vision of the requirements of the 21st Century . with a focus on the future , the Army has developed AirLand Battle doctrine , designed a force modernization program , and stressed the unit training needed to deter war or toto succeed on future battlefields . The most important element of the strategy is developing the leaders who can direct the Army when the Nation's can security is threatened . This pamphlet is about the unique , critical responsibilities shared by the Army's executive leaders . Collectively , they provide the guidance and vision to bring together soldiers, materiel , and the principles of operation to meet current and future challenges . The Army's executive leaders of the future are currently in the system . The principles outlined in this pamphlet will assist them OS and all who prepare them in understanding and meeting their future responsibilities of stewardship and leadership of the Army . . wurthing Jenn . ROBERT M. ELTON Lieutenant General , GS Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel 1 . . ! ! 1 1 1 Headquarters Department of the Army Department of the Army Pamphlet 600-80 Washington , DC 19 June 1987 Personnel General Executive Leadership Summary Statement . This is a new new pamphlet . It complements existing doctrinal leadership manuals by describing responsibilities and frames of reference required at the most senior levels of the Army . Applicability . This pamphlet applies to the Active Army , the U.S. Army Reserve , the Army National Guard , and Department of the Army civilians . Interim Changes . Interim changes to this pamphlet are not official unless they are authenticated by the Adjutant General . Users will destroy interim changes on their expiration dates unless sooner superseded or rescinded . Suggested Improvements . The proponent agency for this pamphlet is the Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel . Users are invited to send comments and suggested improvements on DA Form 2028 ( Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms ) directly to HQDA (DAPE -HRL - L ) , Washington , DC 20310-0300 . CONTENTS Chapter Page i1 OVERVIEW AND CONTENT 1 Introduction 1 The Developmental Logic 1 Concept of Leadership 2 Executive Level Leadership 2 Frame of Reference 3 Leader Development 4 The " Value Added" by Executive Leadership 7 Organization of the Pamphlet 7 Chapter Page 2 EXECUTIVE PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS 10 Introduction 10 Major Areas of Executive Responsibility 10 Executive -Level Environment 12 Joint , Unified and combined Command 12 Multinational and National 12 Executive skills and Abilities 13 Technical Skills 13 Interpersonal skills 15 Conceptual and Decision Skills 15 Summary 16 3 MISSION , CULTURE , VALUES 17 Introduction 17 Relationship of Culture and Values 17 The Cascading Translation Process 18 Organizational Character 20 First Order Effects 20 Second Order Effects 20 Executive Monitoring 21 Backward Planning 21 Summary 23 4 DEVELOPING SOUND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 24 Introduction 24 Organizational Elements of the Defense Structure 24 Organization Structure : Governing Factors 25 Capability and complexity 28 Second -Order Effects of Structure 30 Climate Effects 30 Socialization Effects 31 Personnel Stability Effects 31 Summary 31 5 INFORMATION , PLANNING , AND CONTROL SUBSYSTEMS 33 Introduction 33 Limits and focus of Decision -Making 33 Planning Subsystem 35 Information Subsystem 36 Control Subsystem 38 Amount of Control 39 Summary 40 iv Chapter Page 6 HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 41 AQQQ 仍 如 如 Introduction 41 Human Resource Issues in a Democracy 42 Individual Rights 42 Human Potential 42 The Role of the Army in the Larger Society 43 Human Resources Development Processes 44 Summary 46 7 LEADER DEVELOPMENT 9 48 999 Introduction 48 Stages of Development 48 Leader Development Through Mentoring 49 Executive -Level Responsibility 50 18555 Critical skills for Leaders Conceptual and Decision Skills Technical Competencies 52 53 Interpersonal skills Summary 53 8 THE EXECUTIVE AS INTEGRATOR LIST OF FIGURES Figure Page 8492 % 切 的 弘 弘 刃 9 日 1 The Leadership System 2 Concepts of Leadership 14 3 Cascading Effects on Stated Values 19 4 Executive Monitoring Feedback Loop 22 5 Defense Organization Structure 26 6 US Army Europe 27 7 Echelons in Typical Organizations 29 8 Scope of Decision -Making Limits by Echelon 34 9 Decision Objectives by "Layer " 34 10 Planning by Organizational Level 37 11 Life Cycle Process 45 12 The Executive Leadership System 57 1 1 CHAPTER ONE OVERVIEW AND CONTENT Officers who succeed at three and four star levels have the individual capacity to cope with complexity , amorphousness , and uncertainty . They do not have to have everything laid out for them . They have the resiliency and ingenuity to adapt to new and different circumstances . CINC ( * * * * ) INTRODUCTION This pamphlet is about leadership as seen by the executive leaders of the Army . Its content is based largely on what they have said about their own leadership roles and developmental processes . Quotes such as the one above are from in -depth interviews with serving three- and four star general officers . Their individual insights are presented in an integrated framework that is intended to meet three objectives : To provide a philosophy of leadership based on level -specific tasks and the " value added" by executive leaders . To provide an understanding of the frame of reference that executive leaders use to think about and deal with the complexities of the total Army as a system . To provide the basis for a rational leader development process that begins with the oath to support the Constitution , and extends throughout the service career . THE DEVELOPMENTAL LOGIC The purpose of the Army is to bring together individuals , materiel , and doctrine to defend national objectives . The Army's peacetime mission is deterrence defined in FM 100-1 as the preparation of field units ready to perform their wartime missions . If these units are to be ready to fight immediately , without further preparation , peacetime organization , procedures , and leadership practices must be those that will transfer immediately into an effective fighting force . A critical component of instant readiness is a contingent of leaders at all levels who have the capability to direct the Army's battlefield efforts . Determining the context and procedures that will reliably produce required future leader skills can be done only at the executive level . Leader requirements change with the evolution of combat doctrine . As an example , with the shift in tactical objectives from 1 "" ownership " of terrain to " ownership " of mobility , conventional command and control becomes more difficult . In response , leaders must be developed who can act independently on the distributed battlefield . This means leaders who have well -practiced thinking skills and can read the flow of battle in terms of the intent of their seniors by understanding how their seniors visualize the current and future battles , i.e. , frames of reference . Wartime leaders with initiative and the ability to make independent decisions must be produced in peacetime organizations . This pamphlet provides a set of guiding principles for designing and leading the Army SO as to produce leaders at all levels who have the capabilities necessary to meet future requirements . CONCEPT OF LEADERSHIP The concept of leadership used in this pamphlet has a specific meaning : To achieve understanding and commitment of subordinates for the accomplishment of purposes , goals , and objectives envisioned by the leader , beyond that which is possible through the use of authority alone . In all formal organizations , there are " appointed persons in charge . " They have the authority of position and the opportunity to be leaders . Leadership is the tool for providing purpose and motivation . Good leadership creates commitment at the level of the individual , cohesion at the level of the small unit , and esprit throughout the organization . It is necessary for the attainment of excellence at any level . EXECUTIVE LEVEL LEADERSHIP Executives constitute the top one or two echelons of an organization , depending on the size and structure of the organization in question . In the Army , the term " executive " is generally used for both the civilian and military leadership in the top two echelons . The extreme complexity of the work environment at this level is caused by a combination of factors : the need to assess and balance the various constituencies that make up the organization , particularly rly in their respective resource requirements the number of different types of subordinate organizations or elements that must be integrated to accomplish a given set of missions or goals N the nature and number of types of lateral and command relationships involved in executive - level work the influence of forces external to the organization that the executive cannot control the influence of forces both internal and external to the organization that cannot be clearly known , but may have significant effects Frame of Reference Effective leadership requires an understanding of the previous decision base and the situation , particularly particularly the cause and effect relationships that determine outcomes . The more complex the situation , the more difficult specific cause and effect relationships are to see . The leader's tool for understanding cause and effect in complex situations is a frame of reference , based on knowledge and experience . It is a " mental map " that cannot be taught by conventional classroom methods , but develops over time . It is an operating model of reality that is used to acquire and interpret information . At the executive level , frames of reference must be sufficient to deal with events with complex causes that may be rooted in the distant past and to envision far-distant requirements . This capability is necessary because executive decisions may impact over very long time intervals and be accomplished through indirect more often than direct effects . Executives must deal proactively with complex systems . Their frames of reference must be one that gives the capability for : Systems Understanding . This is a capacity to visualize the interactive dynamics of the total system , including interdependencies , so that decisions taken in one area will not have unanticipated adverse impact in another . The executive must ( 1 ) maintain the capability to deal with current requirements, ( 2 ) conceive future requirements , and ( 3 ) balance these requirements in the resource base . Understanding Second Order Effects An executive's frame of reference must be broad enough to predict and consider the indirect , second order effects of any change . Without this capacity , changes in policy , regulation , or action may produce other changes that were neither anticipated nor desired . Future Focus and Vision . Executives must project into the future sufficiently to envision major system -wide programs and required time for their implementation . Time horizons from 12 ( for the Extended Planning Annex ) to 20 ( for programs requiring major capital resources , such as the # Lateral relationships are those not based on superior/ subordinate command authority . Examples would be representatives of other services or nations , or officers / civilians of comparable authority . 3 force modernization program ) are common in peacetime , though they will be enormously compressed in war . The importance of a future vision at this level is that it provides the concept umbrella for the specific and detailed programs at the organizational level , giving them purpose and meaning within broader conceptual objectives . Proactive Reasoning . Although executives must and do react to immediate or near-term events , they reduce the need to do so by maintaining proactive a proactive stance . Being proactive is more than just attaching meaning to present -day events . Executives must be able to analyze current and future issues in light of their potential effects on the organization's required capabilities . They anticipate the future , envision a desired future state , and then actively influence the environment to direct the flow of events toward the future goal . In this process , executives use their frames of reference as a tool to : 1. Envision desired future capabilities 2. Assess current position 3. Determine the difference and the steps to close the difference 4. Initiate the program 5. Monitor progress The current force modernization program is an example of executive action that was accomplished through this five -step process . To accomplish this task , executives had to understand how to institute and institutionalize a desired set of objectives so that successors would continue toward their attainment as a natural course of events . The force modernization program was initiated in the 1968-69 time frame. In an address to the graduating class at the Command and General Staff College in 1976 , its prime initiator said that it still would not be fully complete "within the service lives " of the graduates predictably an additional 10-15 years . His time horizon was at a minimum of 20-25 years at the time the program was institutionalized as a priority service objective . of particular note , the program was not formulated in response to a requirement . Rather , it was envisioned as a necessary step to create a force that could deal with likely future contingencies . It was а proactive effort that required consensus for its initiation , and for creating the critical mass of resources to get it started . LEADER DEVELOPMENT Executive leaders gain the frames of reference for decision -making as they grow in maturity , experience , and skill , over the duration of a career . They progress through three levels of leadership , each with systematic changes in the nature of leadership tasks and the associated complexity of issues involved in decision -making . In the course of this development , there is an orderly progression from simpler to more complex . Leaders first learn to lead individuals and groups of individuals in direct leadership tasks . They then learn 4 how to exercise indirect leadership of organizations . Finally , they develop indirect skills to lead large headquarters organizations which must communicate effectively across cultural boundaries . These stages of development are outlined below in terms of leadership skills , the nature of the level of complexity , and example organizations . 1. Direct . Direct leadership skills involve direct control of own and delegated work and establish a foundation for subsequent development . They involve the exercise of face -to- face influence , including : coaching and teaching subordinates to develop technical and / or tactical proficiency in both individual and collective skills directing subordinates in the accomplishment of assigned missions motivating excellence fostering cohesion teaching values building discipline At this level of complexity , authority relationships are clear ( subordinates are clearly subordinated ) , lateral relations are primarily focused on coordination , and the number of different technologies that must be employed is small . A battalion or a TRADOC division fits this level of complexity . Authority relationships are clear , and the requirement for lateral relationships with comparable organizations is low . 2. Indirect . At mid- levels of the organization , direct leadership skills are replaced by indirect leadership . Organizational leadership involves a mixture of direct , staff-aided , and delegated output . This is followed by more complex indirect requirements at the executive level where the nature of work involves a mixture of direct and staff - aided output and reduced direct control . Organizational . Leadership skills at this level are built on a foundation of direct skills , and include : integrating and coordinating staff functions building teamwork among subordinate elements ( as opposed to subordinate individuals ) creating combat power ( combat arms units ) or productivity ( non -combat arms units ) by integrating : tangibles ( i.e. , men , materiel , and expendables ) intangibles ( i.e. , intelligence, understanding of the senior leader's intent , and the command climate of the organization ) mentoring, coaching , and teaching subordinate leaders , to provide a frame of reference both for learning direct skills and for upward growth focusing forward up to 10 years 5 At this level of complexity , authority relationships are clear and lateral relationships are primarily focused on coordination , but the number of technologies that must be employed is large . A division or a commodity command fits this level of complexity . Not only does it have more elements , but it has more kinds of elements . Optimal integration is more difficult . Executive . Leadership skills at this level are built on a foundation of direct and indirect / organizational skills , and include : - establishing or maintaining the culture and values of the organization building and / or tailoring organizations to establish future capabilities building consensus and providing resources programs / thrusts over long periods of time managing systematic change to achieve future capability creating policies and principles of operation so positive command climate and cohesion can be created at lower echelons creating the conceptual frameworks within which subordinate echelons operate " growing " subordinate leaders through mentoring and coaching representing their organizations , and the nation when so instructed , in interaction with officials from other armed forces and other nations envisioning in a time frame well beyond 10 years At the highest level of complexity , authority relationships are less clear and actions are often accomplished through consensus building and persuasion . Lateral relationships must be maintained with those at one's own level over whom no authority may exist and who may represent different nationalities or cultures . The number of technologies that must be be employed is large . A joint task force fits this level of complexity , though minimally . All unified command positions fit this level of complexity . Leaders at all levels must be able to evaluate the performance and identify the needs of their organizations . Evaluating includes a systematic means of : envisioning desired objectives gathering information ( attitudes and measurable standards ) assessing and comparing collected information with intended outcomes identifying sources of failure and missed opportunities when the "realized " outcomes differ from the intended outcomes Types and sources of information differ by level . At the direct level , leaders are concerned primarily with tangible and measurable performance, 6 and rely heavily on direct observation to assess results . Leaders at the organizational level are concerned with measurable performance of their subordinate units , but must make greater use of indirect information to monitor performance including methods and processes as well as results . Executive leaders must evaluate the entire organization in terms of its total internal functioning and its relationship to the larger environment . These issues sometimes involve intangibles such as perceptions ( i.e. , the is second rate because .) , and complex second -order effects that defy direct measurement . A critical task for executive leadership is devising and maintaining sources of information that allow them to " sense " how their organization is performing. These systematic sources of information are the leader's " feedback loop . " At the executive level , both internal and external feedback loops are requirements for effective leadership . The inter-relationship of the three levels of leadership is shown in Figure 1 . As can be seen , direct skills are never discarded entirely , but decrease significantly in the higher echelons . Executive -level leadership builds on both direct and indirect / operational skills . THE " VALUE ADDED " BY EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP Leaders at all levels have unique , critical tasks that cannot be performed by subordinates , most commonly because they are so complex that lower echelon leaders lack the frame of reference to make the required decisions . Tasks that cannot be delegated are critical and the leader who does them makes a unique contribution ( "adds value " ) . At the executive level , leaders use their frames of reference to understand complex and uncertain situations that their subordinate leaders lack the knowledge , experience or perspective to understand . A battlefield example of how executives add value is in the use of their frames of reference to create opportunities through complex deception plans . The deception plan that covered the invasion of the European continent in 1944 involved elements that were executed as much as 18 months prior to the first landings . Our current battle doctrine calls for future leaders to be able to get inside the enemy's " decision cycle , " to create battlefield situations where the adversary is reacting to what we have completed while we are now doing something else . Executive leaders must develop this capability and the frames of reference necessary to maintain the defense of the nation and its allies . They must understand the interactive nature of conflict and the interactive decision making process that enables them to impose their will on the enemy . ORGANIZATION OF THE PAMPHLET The remaining chapters of this pamphlet will focus on executive leadership skills , and their implication for leader development at all levels . Specific chapter contents will be as follows . 7 THE LEADERSHIP SYSTEM INDIRECT HQ DEPT ARMY EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP FIELD ARMY /CORPS MACOM S DIVS/SEP BDES/ BDES SCHOOLS INDIRECT . STAFF DIRECTORATES ORGANIZATIONAL LEADERSHIP BNS/COS LEVELS OF SCHOOL DIV LEADERSHIP STAFF SECTIONS DIRECT LEADERSHIP Figure 1 . 8 Chapter Two will expand on the different frames of reference underlying overall leader development , and the four areas of executive responsibility that must be mastered . Chapter Three will focus on the executive's role in establishing and maintaining the culture , values , and policies that guide the total organization . A linkage will be shown between executive culture , values , and policies and performance at the operational level . Chapter Four presents principles of design for organizations that are structured both for mission effectiveness and to foster leader development . Chapter Five will address the design of information systems, planning systems, and control systems. These subsystems also impact on organizational effectiveness , human resources , and leader development . Chapter Six presents a discussion of human resource development for the Total Army , focusing on the obligations of the Army in a democracy , to society , and to its members . Chapter Seven will present a notional growth sequence to guide senior leaders in mentoring and coaching their subordinate leaders . Chapter Eight is a summary of the role of the executive leader as integrator . 9 CHAPTER TWO EXECUTIVE PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS In these positions , we are trying to convince someone that they should do something . It is all persuasion , selling , articulating trying to build consensus for coordinated action . Alliance Command ( * * * * INTRODUCTION Most executive- level positions can be characterized as hectic and filled with stressful short - term requirements . However , if executives are devoting the majority of time to these short - term tasks , they cannot focus on the long - term tasks that only they can perform to add value to the organization . The purpose of this chapter is to describe the unique functions the critical tasks of executive level leadership . MAJOR AREAS OF EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITY The full scope of executive level responsibility falls into the four ma jor areas described below . While no one individual has all of these responsibilities , the collective executive effort must deal with all of them . The first responsibility is managing joint and combined lateral relationships with the other Services and with representatives of other countries in both peace and war . Typical requirements in this area are : creating understanding and acceptance of both Army goals and national objectives , and , in turn , understanding goals and objectives of other national forces creating the consensus required to enable joint and combined action to be undertaken in pursuit of shared goals and objectives maintaining the knowledge and resource base the Army requires to envision desired future outcomes and negotiating to make them happen The second area is representing the organization in its relationships with the larger society . Requirements in this area include : regularly communicating with the Congress and the Administration 10 1 acting as a spokesperson for the organization with other federal agencies , the media , significant influentials at the national level , and the public at large building and maintaining a network of information sources that can be used to understand and influence the environment The third major area is managing the relationship between the Army as a component of the nation's total defense force , and the overarching national policy apparatus . Requirements in this area include : interpreting national policy guidelines and directives 1 providing advice and counsel in national policy formulation planning jointly for the maintenance of the military capability required to implement national policy presenting the organization's requirements for resources and capability developing competitive strategies bridging the gap between political decisions made as part of the national security decision process and individuals who ultimately carry out those decisions The fourth major area is maintaining the future required operating capability to meet worldwide contingencies , including : assessing threat capability and intentions developing a concept base for future operating doctrine creating components of force structure developing operational concept plans to meet threats commanding and controlling joint forces Executives lead and manage ponderous , complex systems , which change very slowly and only with great expenditure of energy . Within this protracted time horizon , general performance objectives at the executive level include : Envisioning future required operating capability in view of developing concepts of future battle . Envisioning structure necessary to provide future capability , within the constraints of available resources and tolerable risk . 11 Building consensus within the organization , with appropriate federal agencies and , as required , with the international agencies necessary to gain support for future organizational structures . Achieving the commitment of the organization , federal agencies and Congress to provide continued continued support support in moving toward future structures . Initiating structural programs with far-distant completion dates that must be institutionalized to be achieved . EXECUTIVE - LEVEL ENVIRONMENT Most executive work is accomplished either in or with awareness of environments that are external to the organization itself . Joint , Unified and Combined Environment Leading the Army as a component of the nation's total defense force requires a joint / combined executive - level perspective . The importance of this context is reflected in the extent to which incumbents must operate outside a strictly Army environment . of the Army's 13 four - star positions , 10 are primarily joint or combined in nature . Twenty - two of the 47 three - star officers are in similar positions in JCS /DOD , unified commands , or alliances . While the remaining executive positions are in organizations that are nominally viewed as single -Service ( e.g. , FORSCOM , . TRADOC , AMC ) , they also have frequent requirements outside Army channels . The work complexity created by pan-Army requirements is twofold . First , communication is complicated by the need to understand the different cultures and languages of the other participants , including the members of other U.S. Service branches . Secondly , subordinates may not be subordinated in the same sense as in purely Army organizations . They and the forces they command might be nominally under one's command but retain their allegiances and lines of authority to their own commanders . Executive leaders must develop the skills that allow working in a collegial , but at the same time , competitive environment where each member bids for a share of limited resources . Although they compete with one another , executives also rely on each other to reduce uncertainty , and to build consensus and shared vision in their complex environments . Multinational and National Environments The requirement to operate effectively in a multinational environment demands an international perspective understanding the political , economic , and social factors in other countries . Executives must have an understanding of other cultures and the ability to develop and sustain the coalitions and alliances that are central to defense strategy . 12 An equally profound national perspective is required for testimony to Congress , and interactions with executives of other federal agencies , state and local political leaders , the media , and other leaders of political and social opinion who in turn influence national attitudes toward the military . This awareness of the outlook , values , and priorities of political leaders and leaders of public opinion requires a deep understanding of American society , including its culture and values , and differences in the values of its key groups . This perspective is necessary not only for public representation , but also for shaping the culture and values of the Army as an integral part of the total society . Executives use both national and international perspectives in two ways : to influence opinion and build understanding of Army needs and purposes external to the Army to interpret the outside environment in order to aid the formulation of internal policy and decisions , and to guide organizational direction Where immediate Army needs , goals , or objectives are in conflict with those of key influentials outside the Army , the differences must be recognized and reconciled . Continued disagreement is incompatible with constitutional and military values . However , reconciliation is impossible without understanding . Executive leaders have the responsibility to achieve shared understanding and to formulate Army courses of action that accurately reflect national policy objectives . EXECUTIVE SKILLS AND ABILITIES Leaders at all levels require skills and abilities in three broad areas : technical knowledges and skills required in the position interpersonal/ communication knowledges and skills conceptual skills Specific tasks to be performed differ from level to level . Also , the balance between technical , interpersonal/ communication , and conceptual changes across levels , as shown in Figure 2 . Technical skills At the direct level ,, technical focus is on solving well-defined problems, and performing specific tasks and missions . At the executive level , the focus is on solving ill -defined problems and dealing with intangibles and indirect effects that can impact on the whole organization . Many of the technical decisions facing executive - level leaders have to do with the assessment of organizational capabilities , and with organizational structuring . 13 LEADERSHIP SKILLS Influence internal and INDIRECT external environments simultaneously . EXECUTIVE Build organizations to work coordinatively with the environment Influence organizations . ORGANIZATIONAL Build groups of groups to work coordinatively Influence people DIRECT Build groups for direct output TECHNICAL INTERPERSONAL (COMMUNICATIONS) CONCEPTUAL Figure 2. 14 Structuring Skills . Executives have the exclusive responsibility to develop new kinds of systems and organizations to provide future operational capability . These decisions almost always require major resource commitments that cannot easily be reversed . Executives must be able to calculate the tradeoffs between opportunity and risk , with the knowledge that if their decisions are wrong , the total defense posture may be weakened . New organizations may be developed in response to changing threat capabilities , technological enhancements , or resource changes . At the Army level , creation of light divisions is an excellent example . The light divisions primarily were formed to meet a part of the spectrum of war that was not covered by a suitable counter , as well as to increase flexibility and mobility to address a range of national contingencies . However , such developments often carry substantial opportunity costs . In this case , the light divisions cost some heavy divisions . Interpersonal skills Because the relationships at executive levels are primarily lateral and without clear subordination , executives must rely more on the interpersonal skills involved in negotiation and collaboration . These tasks are accomplished through a process of effective reasoning and logic . Executives must be able to build the perception that their ideas are rational and deserve support . Conceptual and Decision Skills Executives gather information from both external and internal sources , make sense of it , and provide interpretations to subordinate echelons . The following are components of that process . Environmental Scanning . Scanning is purposeful search in the environment for relevant information . The executive skill lies in knowing what may be important , where to look , and what to ask to obtain needed information . Decision Making . Executives are typically confronted with situations in which cause -and -effect outcomes are not clear , and/or and/ or plausible courses of action may not yet have been developed or identified . They must be able to isolate and identify key issues , visualize and predict potential problems, and formulate least -risk solutions . Most executives do not see decisions as discrete events , but rather as situations to be managed over time to achieve successful outcomes . Reducing Complexity . The executive's role is to understand the total context and purpose and to set azimuths for the organization . Subordinate leaders translate this guidance into operational objectives for implementation . How well the subordinate leaders translate the guidance into operational requirements depends upon their own frames of reference . The translating process will be discussed in Chapter 3 . 15 SUMMARY This chapter has presented executive performance requirements , and required executive skills and attributes to meet the major areas areas of executive responsibilities : Representing the organization to the larger society Interfacing with officials at defense and national levels Interfacing with significant influentials of equal standing in other services , other departments , and other nations Developing required future operations capability The last of these major areas contains most of the long-term tasks of the executive , and requires the greatest understanding of systems level complexity . The next four chapters of this pamphlet will present the logic involved in this area . 16 CHAPTER THREE MISSION , CULTURE , VALUES You need an understanding that the nature of leadership is creating an environment for your organization . People have to share the goals , from the top to the bottom . MACOM ( * * * ) INTRODUCTION As leaders progress from direct to organizational to executive ranks , they leave behind direct leadership of subordinates . They focus instead on creating conditions to assist and enhance direct leadership . Executive leaders are responsible for the most important of the conditions that influence how well direct leaders lead the organization's culture and values . The purpose of this chapter is : to describe the cascading nature of culture and values and their effects on the operating environment as reflected in the behavior and attitudes of organizational members to describe the executive's use of proactive search for information to monitor the operational environment and implement necessary changes so that the culture and its stated values are consistently reflected throughout the organization RELATIONSHIP OF CULTURE AND VALUES For the purposes of this pamphlet , culture and values are defined as follows : Army culture is the body of beliefs members have about the organization and what it stands for , and their expectations of one another as members . Culture contains the basic " dos " and "don'ts " what everyone must do or avoid doing to stay a member in good standing . More important, the "dos " also contain what the organization expects of its members, for the general well -being of all . Army values are statements of what is important . Values either do or should set organizational priorities related to broad objectives and goals , and for resource use . Stated values are determined by the executive leadership . They provide policy guidance for the organization as a whole . Operating values are individual perceptions of what actually is important . Subordinates learn them from rules , operating procedures , de facto priorities , examples set by , and requirements of their immediate direct leaders . 17 Stated values and operating values should be the same , or at least reflect the same principles . Executive leaders must ensure that stated values are correct ( consistent with the needs of both the larger society and the organization ) , and that the doctrines , policies , procedures , and rules that implement them produce the desired operating values ( Figure 3 ) . THE CASCADING TRANSLATION PROCESS The first translation of stated values occurs at the executive level , where they are embodied in department - level policy . The executives at this level give clarity to stated values by formulating policy intended to produce desired first and second order effects . This process is followed at each subordinate level . At each level , leaders must consider not only the desired direct outcomes , but also anticipate indirect outcomes to achieve positive results in both areas . In essence , they are establishing the latitude for subordinate- leader decision making and the basic criteria by which unit excellence will be judged . In this manner , they makes operational the values of the command . Each leader , in turn , adds specificity and clarity to policies , procedures , and requirements , shaping the actions and decisions of subordinate leaders . At the lowest echelons , stability , predictability , and consistency of operating practice then emerge . The command as a whole takes on a recognizable climate . It has several key dimensions : How information is used and shared within the organization , to include how well informed personnel are at all levels about key decisions . The extent subordinates and leaders at all levels feel they can influence decisions that bear on their personal well being . The opportunity for personal and professional growth . The motivational philosophy of the command, particularly the extent to which rewards and punishments are fairly administered . The control philosophy of the command : at one extreme allowing subordinate leaders wide latitude for individual decision within policy guidance appropriate to their current level of development ( decentralization ) ; and at the other extreme allowing very little latitude by virtue of providing a context of high structure ( centralization ) . The leadership support climate of the command : at one extreme building subordinate confidence that leaders will help when help is needed ; and at the other extreme showing that mistakes or misdeeds will be punished without regard to previous record . The respect within the command for the dignity of each individual as a person . 18 CASCADING EFFECTS ON STATED VALUES CULTURE ESTABLISHING CLIMATE • DEPARTMENT-LEVEL POLICY . • DOCTRINE EXECUTIVE STATED VALUES • OPERATING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES . OPERATING PROCEDURES AND RULES PERCEPTIONS OF CULTURE UNIT OPERATIONS PERCEPTIONS OPERATING OF CLIMATE VALUES Figure 3. 19 ORGANIZATIONAL CHARACTER Organizations , like individuals have " character . " Executives shape organizational "character" by the values they state as core for the organization , and the success with which they cause these stated values to be made operational through doctrine and procedures . Executive statements of values alone will have little impact on this process . Executive impact on operating values will be felt only when executive leaders actively monitor the outcomes of doctrine , policy , procedures , and rules at the lower echelons , and take action to reshape these linking mechanisms to make the outcomes conform to what is desired . An example of attempting to establish values by executive statement comes from the Korean experience . Since American soldiers did not hold up well under the pressures of captivity , it was generally believed that they did not possess the necessary values . In response , executive leaders developed the "Code of Conduct for Members of the United States Armed Forces . " This directive , issued by Presidential Order in 1955 , was prescribed mandatory training for all soldiers . In addition , printed notification of the Code's stated values were issued to each individual soldier . In spite of this concerted , Service -wide effort , there is evidence that the behavior prescribed by the Code was never reflected in the command climate . This effort was unsuccessful , at least in part , because the behaviors called for in the Code were negative " shall not's , " rather than positive actions that could be trained for , encouraged , and rewarded in day-to -day operations . In essence , those who developed the Code failed to consider its possible second order effects . First Order Effects: The first order effect of any policy , regulation , or action is its direct outcome . The Code of Conduct was intended to prescribe behavior --to specify what soldiers in captivity could and could not do . In essence , it was an attempt to exercise direct control over the behavior of soldiers in similar situations in the future . Second Order Effects : Indirect , second order outcomes are usually predictable from an executive frame of reference , and should be considered as change is planned . If they are not , effects may occur that are neither anticipated nor desired . The Code of Conduct had at least two undesirable second order effects . First , it prescribed a manner of training , rather than allowing flexibility for organization - level training managers who would implement the program . Second , the rigid prescriptions were a sterile formula that left soldiers without value-based alternatives if that formula failed . A successful example is the " Total Army Fitness Program . " Executive initiatives broadened traditional physical training to mean over-all health and well -being for the Total Army , both uniformed and civilian . The Army-wide approach now includes low-calorie options in dining facilities , weight control , substance abuse intervention , stress tests , and modernized off-duty recreational facilities . 20 The first order effects of the new initiative are to create a work force that does more work and costs less by reducing sickness and lost time . However , the second order effects are also important . The primary indirect effect will be a long term bonding of military and civilian members into a team with higher individual commitment to the Total Army . 0 Other second order effects include increased awareness of the benefits of total fitness by Army families and increased self - esteem . In addition , much like past efforts when the Army led the country in values programs such as racial integration , the Total Fitness program is intended to be a " values pace setter " for the greater society . EXECUTIVE MONITORING Monitoring how successfully culture and stated values are reflected throughout the organization is a critical executive level task . The responsibility cannot be delegated because only executives possess the developed frame of reference necessary to " judge" how both members and outsiders view the organization's character . In order to monitor and judge those views , an executive must have a systematic means of : • envisioning desired objectives gathering information ( attitudes and measurable standards ) comparing collected information with intended outcomes identifying sources of failure when the " realized " outcomes differ from the intended outcomes These systematic measures are the executive's " feedback loop " ( Figure 4 ) . Monitoring internal performance is a requirement for effect ive leadership at all levels . At the executive level , measuring and eva lua tin g external information is equally important . Feedback loops to gather this external information are a critical responsibility of executive - level leadership . BACKWARD PLANNING Problems identified by feedback loops and internal monitoring are addressed by " backward planning , " a process to ensure that operating values are consistent with stated values . Backward planning identifies the procedures and practices at small unit level that are needed to produce the desired context . Next , the policies required to engender the procedures and practices are identified . Finally , the linkage between these policies and stated values is established . 21 EXECUTIVE MONITORING FEEDBACK LOOP EXECUTIVE INPUTS ESTABLISHING CLIMATE STATED VALUES TRANSLATED POLICIES • PROCEDURES • OPERATING PROCEDURES . PRODUCE OUTCOMES EXECUTIVE • COMPARES INTENDED VS ORGANIZATIONAL REALIZED OUTCOMES SOCIETY MEMBERS • MAKES ADJUSTMENTS PERCEPTION OF CLIMATE Figure 4. 22 An example of this process is given below . It reflects an executive policy decision taken at the level of the Chief of Staff , Army . EXAMPLE DATA : Small unit cohesion is marginal DESIGN GOAL : Highly cohesive small units OPERATING VALUE Loyalty GOAL : SYSTEM DESIGN STEP : Program to bring first - term soldiers together and keep them together throughout the first term : COHORT EXECUTIVE POLICY : Move the peacetime system closer to the required wartime system ; improve readiness In this example , the design goal was increased small unit cohesion . Analysis of the problem situation indicated that soldier bonding (mutual loyalty ) was low and that turbulence at small unit level was a significant factor . The necessary system design step was then evident , in the context of new executive policy . Subsequent data indicate that the new context does produce substantially more soldier bonding among first - term soldiers . SUMMARY This chapter has presented the executive's role in developing organizational "character" and influencing operating procedures at the lowest operational levels . Executives must provide broad policy guidance , allow it to be translated at each subordinate level , and use a feedback loop to monitor and evaluate the outcomes from the perspective of both the organization and the greater society . When intended values are not achieved , they must implement change by using a "backward planning" process to identify desired behaviors , and the actions and monitoring processes that will encourage the behavior . 23 CHAPTER FOUR DEVELOPING SOUND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Officers at this level must understand the systems . Not just the combat units , but also the support and joint requirements . These are complicated organizations that have to be understood in their own right before you can synthesize them and deal with concepts for change . Army Staff ( * * * ) INTRODUCTION This chapter will deal with developing an organizational structure that soundly supports the goals and missions of executive leadership . There are three kinds of structuring : Organization structure is the conventional "wiring diagram " of vertical and lateral authority and accountability relationships. Forces structuring is the process of determining the necessary personnel and equipment for the organization and its units . Process structuring is the development of information systems , planning systems , control systems , and human resource systems. These systems , together with regulations and procedures , prescribe how to operate within the organization structure . This chapter will focus on organization structure . Process structure will be addressed in Chapters 5 and 6 . Forces structuring is not included in this pamphlet . ORGANIZATIONAL ELEMENTS OF THE DEFENSE STRUCTURE The overarching structure of the Army is determined by its position as one of the components of the Department of Defense . The Army's Chief of Staff and his counterparts from the other Services are accountable to both their individual Services and to the larger body as co -equal executive leaders of the Joint Chiefs of Staff ( JCS ) . The role of each Service is to develop , equip , train , maintain , and sustain strategic fighting units. When the Secretary of Defense is ordered to defend national objectives , he structures unified commands or joint task forces with strategic fighting units from each of the individual Services . The Army's strategic fighting units are normally at the division level . 24 The position of the Army in the larger organization is shown in Figure 5 . The relationships of the Service components to each other and to the larger organization change to meet operational or training requirements . Under certain conditions , the Army's responsibility may include supporting ( joint ) , lateral ( allied forces - combined ) , and coordinating ( joint staffs ) relationships . More complex organizational changes occur when strategic fighting units are are placed under allied command structures to defend an alliance's collective interest . The peacetime relationships of the Army's executive leaders in Europe are dramatically altered in the event of hostile action , as shown in Figure 6 . Regardless of the nature of command or relationships, the sustainment relationship / responsibility remains with the individual Service organization . As noted in FM 100-1 : Unity of effort among assigned Service forces is achieved by the exercise of operational command by the unified or specified commander Within these unified and specified organizations , each military department ( Army , Navy , and Air Force ) retains responsibility for administration and logistical support of its assigned forces . Thus , individual Service executives are accountable for both the readiness and the individual organizations . support of their individual The effectiveness of each Service in performing their roles is ultimately determined by : how well it has anticipated operational requirements and the force mix to meet those requirements how well it has developed and prepared its strategic fighting units to serve the larger organization its ability to maintain strategic fighting units in service for the required time to accomplish the objectives established by the larger organization effectiveness of relationships between the larger organization , and its subordinate Service components The remainder of this chapter focuses on the Army executive's role in structuring the organization to fulfill its mission as a component of the nation's Department of Defense . ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE : GOVERNING FACTORS Two factors influence the structure an organization should take to achieve highest levels of performance : 25 STRUCTURE ORGANIZATION DEFENSE TIME PEACE TIME WAR OSD JCS THROUGH OF DEPT ARMY COMMAND UNIFIED FORSCOM LAND AIR NAVAL ARMY COMPONENT COMPONENT COMPONENT CORPS ARMY AF TAC FLEET 26 CORPS DIVS SEPBDE OTHER SOD TAC DIVS SEPBDE OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES ARMY -COMMAND ONLY ADMINLOG - UPPORT S -TRAINING SOPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS R - EADINESS RELATIONSHIP C • OMMAND WAR DURING CHANGES . •ADMIN SUPPORT LOG .5Figure CHANGES NEVER 1 Structur Organiza Allied etional OSD JCS tons to sgrios srit duos motzan BESC bostosorios niwala ETS US DEPT SACEUR EUCOM ARMY OF allenblaalons Sebenta WEBS zavisos O batepsiboa AL ACE CINCENT CINCSOUTH de bnmob ) analaries Pote MOB ** FOR NORTHAG CENTAG AAFCE SOUTH LAND ARMY 7TH & USAREUR de consenso AL AND COMMAND : ALERT NATO TO PRIOR ATAF 2 ATAF 4 OF STAGES EARLY AT ONLY AL ALERT NATO 27 * * 21ST OTHERS C V ORPS CORPS VII AADCOM 32 SETAF CMD SPT AD 2D BDE FA 56 )(FWD COMMAND SYSTEM ALERT NATO OF STAGE EARLY AT COMMAND REQUIREM ENTS OPERATIONAL CONTROL OP COORDINATION CMD OF ELEMENT EUROPE CENTRAL FORCES AIR ALLIED ADMINISTRATION AL- ONLY LOGISTICS 6. Figur e Mission considerations , including complexity of the task , how many actual " doers" are required to do it , who ( closeness to the national level ) requires it to be done , and the technology that must be used . Environmental considerations , including the nature of the threat , complexity , and existence of constraints . Military organizations exist to accomplish national purposes and missions specified by legislation . The task of the Army's total leadership is to reduce uncertainty , to translate broad missions into concrete , specific , and detailed instructions , and to define resource requirements. Thus , the chain of command broadly considered the structure -- has as its primary functions to process information ( not just transmit it ) and to make decisions . Critical to these functions are : Rapid and accurate two-way flow of information . ( This implies the need for mutual trust and well - understood information needs between adjacent echelons . ) Accurate translation of concepts and mission orders from more general to more specific at each step . ( Passing the concept down unchanged is not acceptable . ) Translating a concept ( for example, the concept of an operation ) from a higher to a lower echelon is a process of transforming it to the frame of reference of the lower echelon . Uncertainty is reduced as the concept gets more detailed and specific at each translation . The executing echelon must have the necessary frame of reference to analyze and understand the remaining uncertainty ( complexity ) . CAPABILITY AND COMPLEXITY Many factors influence the capacity to handle complexity . Foremost is the experience level of the leader and supporting staff . The greater the variety of experiences , the more likely it is that the echelon will have a perspective that can encompass the factors in a complex mission . Each echelon is suited for , and has specified for it , a unique range of missions , and a set of critical tasks unique to its missions and its frame of reference . These critical tasks cannot be either delegated or elevated . The numbers of echelons in typical Army organizations are shown in Figure 7 . An army in the field has seven echelons. As the land forces component of the U.S. defense structure , a field army receives extremely complex missions that are determined by Joint and / or Combined strategy . The units at platoon / squad level will execute the mission through the most fundamental collective tasks . The number of echelons (command levels ) is designed to transform global concepts and missions into fundamental tasks so that each echelon understands the concept and mission given . 28 ECHELONS IN TYPICAL ORGANIZATIONS 1 DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS FIELD ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF TRADOC CORPS DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF DEPUTY COMMAND DIVISION DIRECTORATE SCHOOL SEP BRIGADE BRIGADE DIVISION DIRECTORATE BATTALION BRANCH DIVISION COMPANY BRANCH PLATOON INSTRUCTOR Figure 7. 1 29 Although the complexity of missions received at Headquarters Department of Army are equally great , the work done at the lowest echelon is not as concrete and fundamental as in a field army or a sustaining organization . Therefore , only five echelons are required . Organizations of the sustaining base support the Army in the field to its lowest echelon . For example , the TRADOC organization depicted in the table is responsible for training down to the individual soldier level . Thus , a near mirror image of the field Army is required to fulfill these responsibilities . Given an organization's mission and the tasks required for execution , the number of echelons it should have to achieve best performance can be specified . A general principle is that a sound organization will not have more than seven . Excessive layering has the following consequences : Information flow to decision makers is cumbersome and less accurate Responsibility and accountability are more difficult to establish Esprit suffers because effort must be expended responding to guidance that does not add value Response to direction / guidance is more sluggish Leanness and conceptual strength required to develop leaders in peacetime with the thinking skills for a wartime distributed battlefield will be lacking SECOND - ORDER EFFECTS OF STRUCTURE Organizational structure has both first and second order effects. First order effects are direct effects on effectiveness and efficiency and the extent to which accountability has been properly implemented by structure . Indirect , second order effects occur primarily in the areas of climate and socialization processes ( acceptance of organization values and norms ) , which collectively impact on organizational stability . Climate Effects These effects stem from the impact of structure on the opportunity for personal and professional growth . There is a relationship between degree of structure or " depth " in the organization , and latitude for use of judgment in the discharge of assigned duties . There is , of necessity , more judgment latitude at the higher echelons , and less at lower . However , the opportunity to use judgment latitude is a primary requirement for personal and professional growth . Those at the bottom of a " tall" organization have limited discretionary authority , and will find growth more difficult . In determining the number of echelons in their subordinate organizations , executive leaders must seek a balance between flexibility and member growth ( resulting from low structure ) and efficiency ( resulting from high structure ) . 30 1 Socialization Effects Socialization is the learning and acceptance of organization values and norms by members . Although it primarily applies to new members , it also applies to members as they advance within the organization . Organizational structure creates aa perception of operating values . High organization structure , all other things equal , produces a perception at . the lower levels of a mechanical, uncaring , " interchangeable parts " climate . Operating values are perceived to be focused on outcomes , and 1 not on the individuals as people , and with corresponding limits on opportunity . Personnel Stability Effects The two indirect , second order effects above combine to determine who is likely to remain a member of the organization . A climate that leads to a perception of low value on personal and professional growth will generally stimulate the members who value growth to leave , and members not valuing growth to remain . Over time , the climate of the organization will not only strongly influence the composition of its membership , but also its potential capabilities . SUMMARY An organization structured into echelons as thus far described , and with echelons resting on frames of reference as indicated , will conform to the following principles of design . Each echelon must add unique value to each adjacent echelon by performing its own critical tasks . The unique missions and functions at each echelon will be determined by the level of mission complexity made appropriate by the frame of reference at that echelon . When an echelon assigns a mission to a lower echelon , a critical task is to provide a concept of operation appropriate to the receiving echelon's frame of reference . A well designed organization will generally have no more than seven echelons , and may have fewer . No task or mission should be assigned to an echelon lacking the required frame of reference for identification of implied tasks and indirect effects of possible courses of action required by that task or mission . Organizational " quickness " is optimum , all other things equal , when decision -making occurs at the lowest echelon where all essential information and the required frame of reference first appear . 31 Three distinct frames of reference are found in progression from lowest to highest echelons in a military organization : direct , organizational , and executive . These are acquired sequentially and progressively as leaders mature in experience and understanding . Interdependence among operating elements in the defense structure requires mutual exchange of information and decision making . 32 CHAPTER FIVE INFORMATION , PLANNING , AND CONTROL SUBSYSTEMS You have to be able to understand what is making environmental changes before you can chart your own objectives , do your own planning , set your long - term goals . Everything is connected in inter -related systems . Joint Staff ( * * * ) INTRODUCTION Organization structure provides an accountability hierarchy that gives purpose and direction at the top , and accomplishes tasks and missions at the bottom . Process structure consists of the major procedural subsystems ( information , planning , and control ) that make the organization structure work . Even more than organization structure , process structure affects an organization's character its command culture , climate , and operating values . A process structure has three primary purposes : to specify routines to accomplish key functions , and thus to provide common understanding among members about how the organization operates and how they must operate together to enable recognition of environmental change and to facilitate adaptation to serve leaders in their decision and problem solving functions LIMITS AND FOCUS OF DECISION -MAKING Each organizational " layer " has a different scope and level of discretion for required decision -making and problem- solving activities . Decision -making is the exercise of judgment to choose / develop and implement a course of action . Problem- solving is a broader process of first understanding a partially unstructured situation and then developing a course of action . Decision authority is bound by discretionary limits which are normally narrow at the lowest organizational echelons , and broader at higher echelons ( Figure 8 ) . Discretionary limits vary in response to several factors : 33 SCOPE OF DECISION - MAKING LIMITS BY ECHELON INDIRECT EXECUTIVE INDIRECT ORGANIZA TIONAL DIRECT DISCRETION COMPLEXITY LEVELS OF LEADERSHIP LOW HIGH Extent of Decision Discretion Figure 8. DECISION OBJECTIVES BY " LAYER " Layer Decision Purpose: Examples INDIRECT Design new organizations to achieve future required operational capability Executive Ensure that needed resources will be available Monitor the character of the total organization Organizational Maintain operating effectiveness at the direct level through planning, programming, and prioritzing Create optimum interdependence of subordinate elements DIRECT Accomplish the tasks and missions of the organization Assimilate new members; take care of all members Figure 9. 34 Complexity of the decision problem . By their very nature , hierarchical organizations provide maximum clarity at the lower echelons about what is to be done and the methods that are to be used . Discretionary limits must be broader at higher echelons where problems are unique and solution alternatives cannot be prescribed in advance . Frame of reference . Discretionary limits broaden as leaders develop a more encompassing frame of reference to solve problems and make decisions . Amount of resources available for discretionary purposes . As complexity ,, discretionary limits , problem structure , and the nature of critical tasks change , each organizational " layer " requires different information , planning , and control subsystems to serve its needs . The changing nature of decision objectives by " layer" is shown in Figure 9 . The nature of day -to-day work focuses a leader's attention on the here and now at every level . The critical issue for executive leaders is that they must find time for the " longi tasks , and must execute " short " tasks in the context of the " long " flow of events . Understanding the long - term direction allows rational judgments about the utility of short -term actions . In the same way , understanding the long - term direction provides a concept base for the short - term actions of subordinates . The executive's perspective is a multi -timeframe perspective , perhaps comparable to a horizon . Leaders at the direct level , because of their high process structure , cannot have a long time horizon . However , at each higher echelon , the time horizon needs to be enough longer to ensure that all the shorter term actions at the next lower echelon " make sense " in the longer view . It is this "making sense " function that enables more senior echelons to add value to subordinate echelons . An echelon that cannot fulfill this function should not exist . PLANNING SUBSYSTEM A plan is primarily a tool for coordinating the effort of persons or elements who must work together in specific ways to achieve specified objectives . Plans take many forms , but all good plans will have the following minimum elements : Previous decision base , i.e. , irreversible parameters What is to be accomplished ( objective ) The required sequence of actions The roles of the participating elements and sub -elements 35 Coordination and control measures , including times to completion of phases and the total effort Resources and support provided/ required A good plan provides participants an understanding of the total operation , their own roles, and the roles of others . It consequently enables participants to initiate coordinative activities as required , assess the progress of action as the plan unfolds , and react constructively within the intent of the plan to unanticipated contingencies . Planning takes place throughout the organization ; however , there are level -specific differences regarding objectives , frames of reference , and critical tasks ( Figure 10 ) . The scope of the planning effort at each level of the organization is influenced by : Task Complexity : Difficulty of assessing the number of factors ; rate of change of these factors over time ; and the number of organizational elements or sub -elements participating in the 1 planned action . Time Required to complete the planned Action The Nature of the Planning Objective : Number of of feasible alternative courses of action ; second order effects of courses 1 of action ; non -organic support or resources that must be obtained Magnitude of Resources Requirement : Opportunity cost associated with selected course of action ; time required to mass resources ; time required to recoup loss if plan does not work ; risk analysis of intangible outcomes Planning at the executive level must be done in the context of major 1 1 policy and high degrees of uncertainty . Considerations include issues 1 such as changes in international alliances , developing technology in threat nations , and changes in our own strategic and economic policies . The most critical issues for executive attention are generally long time horizon decisions that commit resources to development and acquisition of major systems . These decisions are most likely to be mutually exclusive of other decisions ( have high opportunity costs ) , and to be irreversible , at least in the short term . INFORMATION SUBSYSTEM Information is the lifeblood of a mission - focused organization . It 1 must be timely , accurate , complete enough to allow the required decision making to occur , free of distortion , and affordable . An information subsystem must get information from the right sources , translate it , process it into a form suitable for use by leaders at each echelon , distribute it at the right time , and store it for future use . All these actions must be taken in view of the information requirements of the leaders at each echelon for the accomplishment of their critical tasks . 36 PLANNING BY ORGANIZATIONAL LEVEL Level Type Time Frame Purpose INDIRECT EXECUTIVE Strategic Long Establish Purpose (Beyond Create Resource Critical 10 Years ) Mass ORGANIZATIONAL Operational Mid (2-10 Define Missions Years) Allocate Resources DIRECT Tactical Near (3 Mos. Set Objectives to 2 Years ) Assign Specific Tasks Figure 10. 37 Decision makers who design and operate information subsystems must understand the information requirements of the total system . This is an executive responsibility ; the full scope of understanding of total organization requirements does not exist at any other level . The information subsystem serves several functions : to monitor the external environment , including threat forces to monitor organizational performance to provide cues as to the existence of problems to provide insight into cause and effect relationships affecting performance , and functions that need to be improved in order to improve performance to ascertain the present state of the organization in order to plan for its future The focus at the executive level is on whether the force as a whole is currently in the right balance to meet present contingencies , what change is necessary to deal with future contingencies , and what resourcing is required to do what needs to be done . Thus , information requirements include assessing the state of the world environment , detecting significant change in the balance of world power , projecting threat technological horizons ( and fiscal capability to implement technological possibilities ) , noting worldwide manpower resources , and monitoring other forces that impact on national vital interests . While those responsible for designing an information system must understand information requirements of the total system , all leaders need to understand requirements at echelons adjacent to their own . Information that is of limited use use to one level may be critical to another . Each echelon needs to ensure that information is not lost and gets to the user who needs it . When there is a lack of understanding of the information requirements at adjacent organizational levels , the fault generally can be traced to the fact that frames of reference have not been adequately shared . CONTROL SUBSYSTEM Military leadership is accountable to the people through elected leaders in the executive and legislative branches of the government as prescribed by the Constitution and laws . A part of that accountability is to control individual and organizational behavior so that the authority to use lethal force is not violated . Army leaders also are accountable for enormous amounts of both human and materiel resources . Army executives must instill a professional ethic into the organization's members , as well as develop precise and well -defined executive - level feedback . mechanisms , such as the Office of the Inspector General and the Army Audit Agency , to assist in monitoring the organization's behavior . 38 Each subordinate echelon also employs a number of control mechanisms such as reporting procedures , training objectives , operating procedures ,, and evaluation processes . Executive leaders have a second responsibility to ensure that control mechanisms within and between organizational levels do not excessively burden lower echelons . As with all organizations , the general purposes of control systems in Army organizations are to : provide guidance , control resources , and set limits of discretion on the exercise of subordinate judgment prescribe standards for subordinate performance These , literally , are the functions required to cause operations , and to contain them within specified limits to produce consistently good outcomes . Control obviously is necessary so that performance is predictable and consistent with institutional values , particularly given the high levels of individual and organizational power entrusted to the nation's armed forces . However , the Army's executive leadership must also be concerned with the development of its future leaders . The degree and type of control must be evaluated against its impact on the direction and rate of growth of subordinates . Amount of Control Control and decision latitude ( or initiative -building ) are reciprocals . The more control there is , the less decision latitude there can be and the more slowly thinking and decision skills will mature throughout the organization . Further , a highly controlled organization creates a tendency for leaders , especially at the direct level , to be reactive -- to await orders rather than be proactive -- to initiate appropriate action , even in the absence of orders . Finally , a highly controlled organization tends to create a mindset toward reliance on others ( or authoritative sources ) for solutions to problems , rather than self -reliance and initiative . EFFECTS OF HIGH LEVEL OF CONTROL MORE LESS Predictability Uncertainty Immediate performance Long - term individual growth Capacity for quick reaction Capacity to plan future action Tendency to wait for orders Tendency to diagnose situation and act There clearly is a balance to be struck , and executive leaders must determine the tradeoff between predictability and individual growth . Efficiency and some aspects of effectiveness demand effective control.. However , effectiveness on the distributed battlefield will also certainly require the capacity to think and solve problems , and particularly to deal with the unexpected . Complexity is a central factor for determining 39 what level of control is needed . There is an optimum level and type of control for each level of operational complexity . In general , we 1 overestimate the ability of senior levels of command to deal effectively with operational matters at subordinate levels . Given AirLand Battle doctrine , and the requirements for greater decentralization , there is one feasible way to have high battlefield 1 control and high battlefield effectiveness at the same time . That is through development of leader mindsets in peacetime that will transfer readily to the wartime context . These mindsets must emphasize the requirement for disciplined reading of the battle and innovative initiative in executing the commander's intent , even in the absence of conventional command , control , and communications . SUMMARY To be most effective , an organization needs to be designed for the job it must do . Many of the factors that need to be considered have been 1 presented in the last two chapters . There are two central themes for | executive leaders : Design must include consideration of both first -order and second -order desired outcomes . An organization's character is quite literally built by second-order effects as laws , policies , rules , and regulations are promulgated . Proactive executive leaders will shape the future organization through selecting the second -order effects that will produce the desired future 1 results . Except in rare circumstances, executive leaders must give more weight to significant second-order effects than to first -order effects . This is especially true in areas dealing with institutional values . They are longer term in nature , and harder to reverse once established . They also may have greater long - term impact on organizational performance . ? 40 CHAPTER SIX HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT Organizations are moving and dynamic matrices of people and things . The Army, more than most organizations , depends on its people . We need an approach that fosters the development of individuals . CINC ( * * * * ) INTRODUCTION Organizations are formed for one reason to bring human beings together to accomplish collective goals . The Army , like every other organization , is its people . This statement is neither trite nor obvious . It is the concept that underlies every successful organization . Necessary functions to accomplish this objective include : attracting high quality individuals to the organization providing the best in growth opportunities within a systematic process for developing member capability maintaining an accurate current inventory of existing human resources assessing individuals ( both current performance and potential ) providing feedback systematically putting existing capability to to best use for organizational purposes An overarching objective of the human resource system is to maximize the net worth of the Army's human resources for mission accomplishment , in both the near and long term . The preceding chapters have presented principles of organizational structure and process subsystems that are intended to increase human opportunity and accomplishment , primarily through second order effects . This chapter deals directly with executive responsibility for human resource policies and how they affect the Army's ability to fulfill its obligations : In a democracy To the larger society To its own members 41 HUMAN RESOURCE ISSUES IN A DEMOCRACY The framers of the Constitution empowered the Congress to raise armies to defend the nation . Military leaders , by Congressional mandate and Oath of Commission , are held accountable to the people of the nation for upholding constitutional values and managing the human and financial 1 resources entrusted to their care . The most precious of those resources is human life . Military executives have always been trusted by the citizenry to manage those resources properly and to uphold the nation's principles . Executive- level leaders have a critical task to ensure that the trust is never broken . They do so by ensuring that organizational culture is consistent with the larger moral , spiritual , and social values on which the nation was founded , and that the organization's use of its human resources conforms to those values . Individual Rights 1 1 One principle that distinguishes the armed forces of the United States from military organizations of many other nations is the commitment to individual rights . As the guardians of national interests , the nation's armed forces must also be protectors of this core value . Violations of basic human rights must be viewed as immoral and intolerable . The tenacity with which this value is upheld by the total forces of this nation gives truth to national values . In turn , discharging this responsibility requires executive attention to the policies , procedures procedures , and subsystems that bear on how members are managed , led , and otherwise dealt with in their day - to -day performance of duty . - - The men and women of the Total Army have individual rights to : essentials of life necessary for health and welfare opportunity to grow in personal and professional stature fair , equitable , and just treatment 1 individual protections afforded by the Constitution 1 The purpose of the human resource subsystem is to develop the organization's human resources , while ensuring that these rights are protected and that all members share in the opportunity for productive work and professional growth . In this context , professional growth does not mean promotions , but rather the opportunity to learn and polish skills , develop develop additional specialties , and pursue any additional occupational specialties number of other activities that will stretch them to be all they can be . 1 Human Potential The human resources of the Total Army are drawn from the larger society , and thus reflect its diverse composition . Soldiers and civilians that make up the force represent widely different , at times conflicting , backgrounds . These people must be assimilated and developed 42 to form cohesive fighting units and supporting structures that can work together effectively and efficiently . An essential part of a development program in a diverse organization is a philosophy of human nature that stresses individual dignity and potential . Everyone possesses the potential to enjoy work and perform it creatively , to be responsible , trusting and trustworthy , to exercise authority and leadership , and to cooperate in cohesive groups . The extent to which these potentials are realized does not result from individual backgrounds Ог personalities , but rather from the circumstances and conditions in which people find themselves . Policies established at the executive level must structure a human resources development system that enables each person to reach his or her full potential . Such a system must be designed to : provide each individual the opportunity to achieve self-respect within and external to the workplace provide for improved quality of life both within and beyond the duty environment facilitate opportunities to fit into and fulfill useful roles in the larger society enable each individual to reach a level of work and socio economic status appropriate to his or her abilities These objectives must be achieved within the hierarchical stratification that is a reality of the armed services . Executives have the responsibility to ensure that structure , policy , or procedures do not limit individual mobility and equitabe reward for achievement . THE ROLE OF THE ARMY IN THE LARGER SOCIETY The Army's human resource development policies must fulfill another set of obligations -- those of the organization to the society . All organizations are societal institutions . They exist to fulfill societal goals . The primary goal for the Army is national defense . However , a second , less obvious goal shared by all organizations is to make a positive difference in the society itself . The Army contributes to society in many ways , including financial support for local economies , community service by its members , and assistance in times of natural disasters . However , the most important contribution must be to the growth and development of the nation's youth . This is a long- term investment with enormous potential for long term positive effects . The young people who join the Army and each of the other Services come with their own hopes and expectations . The commitment of a human resources program is to these young people , but it is also to their 43 parents , families , and communities . These young people are the nation's most valuable resource for the future . Their service may span a single enlistment or an entire career . If , during that time , they learn fairness and justice , if their experience has led to growth in skills and maturity then the Army will have fulfilled a most important obligation to society . This is a contribution to nation -building in the truest sense , and is fundamental to defending the Constitution not by arms alone . The Army's current leaders have focused attention on this obligation in the stated values of recruiting themes . Society's view of whether or not the obligation is fulfilled will be determined , in large part , by the perceptions of " reality" at the operating level , as seen by serving sons and daughters . Executives are responsible for actively monitoring the outcome of stated values at the operational level and ensuring that the obligation is both fulfilled ,, and perceived as fulfilled by the members of the organization and by society . HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROCESSES The human resource subsystem is a life -cycle process ( Figure 11 ) . It involves a systematic process for assimilating individuals from society into the institution and into the work environment . At some future time , individuals will face a transition back into the larger society . The life cycle includes the following : Recruiting the right people with the right mental and physical aptitude in the right numbers to meet current and future requirements A socialization process to assimilate personnel of widely differing cultural backgrounds into a cohesive organization with a singleness of purpose Work environments that encourage productivity , job satisfaction , motivation , mutual trust , and pride in membership Systematic processes for identifying individual potential and assessing individual performance Programs for professional and personal growth Quality leadership at the direct level that is based on competence, individual dignity , and self -respect Equitable processes for assignments and promotions Programs for the physical , mental and spiritual well -being of individuals and dependents Accurate inventories of existing human resources Processes for systematically putting existing capability to best use for organizational purposes 44 Resources Human PROCESS CYCLE LIFE SOCIETY CULTURES VALUES LEGAL ARMY ALUES CULTUREN CHARACTER LEGAL SE SOTTS INSTITUTIONAL ENVIRONMENT •W ORK •EVALUATION PERFORMANCE OF •POTIVATION /M ROMOTION RECRUITING POTENTIAL •ASSESSMENT OF TERMINATION 45 G • ROWTH TRANSITION ASSIMILATION E • LIMINATION PROFESSIONAL P - ERSONAL •DISCHARGED con OPPORTUNITIES •EQUITABLE RETIRE AWARDS RECOGNITION RESERVES moto og 9H . 11 Figur e Selectively removing individuals who do not meet established objectives Procedures for rapid mobilization and expansion of the total active force 1 Terminating through ( 1 ) retirement with support to the retiree and dependents until death , ( 2 ) transition to civilian status without retirement benefits , but with service obligation fulfilled , or ( 3 ) transition to civilian soldier status in the Army Reserve or National Guard Each of these functions involves complex executive policy decisions regarding resources and tradeoffs . In the days of a volunteer force , the Army must compete with industry and with the other services to attract competent , motivated young people . Army executives must secure congressional approval and resources for salary levels and increases that are competitive with industry wages . However , competitive salaries are only one part of recruiting and retaining high -quality personnel . The overall nature of day -to - day work must be seen as challenging and part of a larger goal . The menial , boring work of the organization must get done ; however , opportunities for growth and satisfaction also must be provided at every level . Executive policies and resource decisions ultimately determine the availability of these opportunities . At each step of the life cycle , policy decisions must be made between current requirements and future capability . For example , resources to increase leader development must be evaluated against needs for current training on new weapo ns systems . weapons Providing a full range of support services for soldiers and their dependents may have hidden risks in terms of excessive cost and limited individual discretion . Expanded training opportunities for the other components of the Total Army may take resources from the active force . These examples and all other decisions that affect the Army's future human capabilities must be made by those who can properly calculate risks and opportunity costs , and make the critical tradeoffs between the present and the future . In addition to making resource decisions , executives set the policies that will be translated into the functional processes of the human resource life cycle . Rules , regulations , and procedures are the gates to opportunity and those who apply them are the gatekeepers for individual development. Manning the force with the talent and motivation needed for today and tomorrow rests on executive responsibility to ensure : ( 1 ) that the policies themselves encourage the identification and development of the best and the brightest , and ( 2 ) that they are applied in such a way that the best and brightest experience the Army as a source of growth and 1 opportunity . SUMMARY The policies and procedures of the human resource development subsystem have greater potential for long -term , irreversible effects than 46 any other subsystem . As a result , executive - level leaders must give critical priority to these decisions and to establishing effective feedback loops to monitor both direct and indirect effects of human resource actions . Policy decisions must be made within a frame of reference that anticipates the short - term and future impact of policies . Army executives are accountable to the nation for the growth and development of the young people entrusted to the organization . Their first responsibility is to ensure that the principle values set forth by the Constitution are upheld . Secondly , members of the Total Army must have the opportunity to grow mentally , physically , and professionally .. In the final analysis , individual perceptions of operating values , both within and external to the organization , will determine the long -term capabilities and success of the Army . If those values are compatible with core values from the larger culture , the Total Army will be a respected and trusted institution within a democratic society . 47 CHAPTER SEVEN LEADER DEVELOPMENT We must approach the problem of leadership with an attitude , more than a system . We need a philosophy , not a set of procedures . MACOM ( * * * * ) INTRODUCTION | The general theme of this pamphlet is that the Army's executive 1 leaders have a primary responsibility to build the capabilities needed to fulfill future missions . Regardless of the success in building for the future in all other organizational areas , if the development of future leaders is neglected , organizational objectives will not be met . Therefore , a critical task for Army executives is the development of subordinate leaders with the capability to become the executive leaders of the future . The effect of such a program is more than just ensuring that the relatively few executive - level positions will be filled by highly 1 qualified leaders . An added benefit of a systematic leadership development program is that leaders at all levels will be better able to understand the intent of their executives , and to translate the executive frame of reference across echelons . This is also essential to the development of readiness for the distributed battlefield . 1 The purpose of this chapter is to provide a set of guidelines for developing executive- level skills . The sections that follow will stress both the stages of development , and the special attributes and developmental experiences gleaned from the views of current executives . STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT The skills required at the three levels of leadership have been discussed throughout this pamphlet . The important point is that growth through the three stages is progressive and sequential and requires long range planning . Some skills serve as foundations for the later acquisition of more complex skills . Where this is so , leaders must master the tasks requiring these skills at each level before proceeding to the next higher level, where an expanded frame of reference is required . The systematic dimensions of expansion are : Direct : Time horizon is up to two years and the nature of work is the direct control of own and delegated work . Thinking skills required are direct analysis and planning . 48 Indirect Organizational : Time horizon is up to 10 years and the nature of work is a mixture of direct , aided , and delegated direct output . Thinking skills are those required for conducting complex analysis with modeling , and multiple and critical path planning . Indirect Executive : Time horizon is far beyond 10 years and the nature of work is a mixture of direct and aided direct output , with reduced delegated direct output and direct control . In addition to thinking skills for conducting complex analysis and modeling , skills for complex integrative modeling and concept development are required . Passage from one level of capability to the next is a complex and long -term process . Some will not make the passage from the direct level of leadership . Others may make the transition to organizational leadership , but no higher . Individual capability to acquire the frames of reference required at each level of leadership can be considered as an interaction of three factors : 1. cognitive ability 2. individual values and temperament 3. knowledge and skills that have been developed through training and experience Assuming that cognitive ability and the temperament required of a leader are sufficiently present , leadership development then becomes a function of the opportunity to develop the appropriate knowledge and skills . Earlier chapters have focused on the influences of organizational and process structures on the opportunity to develop leadership skills at all levels . While While the design principles discussed so far are necessary to the development of executive- level skills , they are not sufficient . The executive tasks of envisioning , value setting ,, gaining consensus , and resource building are not learned in the classical sense from the " school house " and reinforced by the organization . Rather , they are learned over time through experience and the guidance of leaders who have mastered these skills and can share them through a specific process called "mentoring . " LEADER DEVELOPMENT THROUGH MENTORING Mentoring is the process used to develop the thinking skills and frames of reference for sequential and progressive leader development . It is different from coaching and performance evaluation in both content and individual responsibility . Coaching focuses on here -and-now performance and is the responsibility of immediate superiors . Superiors once removed are the mentors , and they are concerned with assessing potential and developing the capabilities and frames of reference that will be required in the future . 49 Mentoring involves processes to : Assess current capability and long -term development needs Program learning or experience to fill the gaps Practice the " building block " components of the required frame of reference , with feedback on progress Integrate the building blocks into more complex skills , with feedback on progress Mentoring is exercising subordinate " thinking skills " through opportunities to exchange insights on complex issues . A mentor " thinks with " a subordinate to challenge his or her depth of thinking , logic , and rationale and to share insight insight drawn from a more developed frame of reference . Executive leaders are responsible for establishing and reinforcing a mentoring structure throughout the organization . There have been unsuccessful attempts in the past to institutionalize this process through such things as the performance evaluation system . Mentoring cannot be imposed as a requirement , but rather must be seen as an inherent responsibility set by executive example . EXECUTIVE - LEVEL RESPONSIBILITY Establishing a systematic mentoring process is only one part of executive responsibility for leader development . Such a process would be one operational element of a leadership philosophy that is established at the top , and makes its way throughout the organization . Other components include ( 1 ) appropriate doctrine , policies , and procedures , ( 2 ) personal examples that reflect the value placed on leader development at the executive level , and ( 3 ) executive monitoring of the leader development subsystem . The leader development processes can be considered in two components : Structured component : the traditional training program including individual training in the " school house " and unit training in the field Unstructured component : individual leader development processes , including coaching , guiding , and mentoring The executive must monitor both components and receive feedback of the outcomes being produced at each level within the organization . For the structured component , executives must ensure that there is interaction and feedback between the " school house " and the field so that leadership skills that are taught reflect reality at the operational level . Leadership training and development also must have both continuity of principles and level - specific requirements . 50 Executives also must ensure that selection and assignment policies provide opportunities to acquire the broad multi-national, multi-Service frames of reference required of future leaders . Such policies must reflect the importance of developing broad based perspectives , rather than the needs of career -motivated "ticket punching . " The unstructured component largely depends on how each superior officer views a personal obligation for leader development . Developing leaders is a time -consuming process that can often be delegated or delayed . If leader development is perceived as valued at the executive level , time will be likely to be made available at every level . Executives must make the time and reinforce through their own actions that leader development is a current leader's investment in the future . It is their most important contribution to the organization and to its people . CRITICAL SKILLS FOR LEADERS Those who are guiding leader development must : identify skills needed by subordinates to prepare them for transition to more complex leadership positions , formulate innovative means that will provide opportunities to develop these skills , and establish a climate that encourages growth and risk taking . The following lists of executive - level abilities are provided as a guide for long -term leader development. Each skill area should be considered in light of the types of activities that will enhance development . CONCEPTUAL AND DECISION SKILLS These are the cognitive skills necessary to understand the total organization , guide its progress , and place it properly within the context of the larger society . Developmental activities should be structured to provide : Systems Understanding : the dynamics of the total system , how the system operates , and its interdependencies Envisioning /Anticipating : dealing with extremely long time horizons and envisioning feasible futures Proactive Thinking : anticipating future requirements , taking the necessary action to meet future requirements rather than waiting for them to develop and then reacting to their existence . Scanning : purposeful search for information relevant to an issue that has been conceptualized but not resolved ; knowing where to look for the information and how to filter out what is useful 51 Problem Formulation : focusing on underlying causes of a problem , analyzing cause and effect relationships , looking for similarities among existing problems , and formulating a general approach toward solution Reflective Thought : creating frames of reference to aid situational understanding by taking time to think through cause and effect , long - term implications , and overarching principles Critical Self Evaluation : analyzing past performance in terms of how it could have been better accomplished and determining " why " it was not achieved ; discarding old problem - solving techniques as the nature of the work changes at the next highest level . TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES Technical competence at the executive level involves understanding the mechanics of organizational structuring and the interdependencies between organizations , and between the organization and the larger environment . System and Subsystem Development : creating new organizational capabilities to meet future operating requirements. In addition to understanding system and subsystems , being able to synthesize and identify new relationships needed to meet future requirements . Understanding that change is slow and must be taken with care and skill to insure the results meet the demands of the system . It includes the following : shaping culture and values structuring organizations structuring information , planning , and control subsystems structuring human resources subsystems Interdependencies : ability to build interdependence among subordinate commands and with the other Services of the larger defense organization . Requires knowledge and understanding of the other Services to be able to develop collaborative relationships for the joint climate where cooperation and understanding are essential . Technological Understanding : being able to evaluate technology for effectiveness and risk in terms of future requirements ; understanding technology's function in the organization to enhance capabilities and the use of time 52 INTERPERSONAL SKILLS These are the skills needed to interact with and influence others , and the personal attributes that are important to executive - level leadership . The executive interacts with a wide diversity of groups , each with their own unique characteristics . The skill is to be able to " sense " the group's character and what is necessary to make it function . In essence , it is getting into the minds of each group , " sizing up" what makes it work - and then developing the approach to be taken to produce favorable outcomes Organizational Representation : ability to represent the organization to the external environment in a way that increases understanding Understanding People : the capacity to assess personal motivations , interpersonal dynamics , and organizational power dynamics Subordinate Development : the capacity to mentor effectively , to assess potential , and give frank appraisals of subordinates Communications : the ability to exchange concepts by placing them in language understandable to an audience and the ability to listen , to hear accurately , and to seek to understand Personal Stamina : the personal capacity to tolerate uncertainty , take calculated risk , and rapidly modify current courses of action based on new information These three areas are interactive and must be developed concurrently . Development in only one area leads to specialization . Specialists become advisors to executives , not effective executives . Collectively , these skills enable executives to " see" what others cannot , to translate what they " see" into impacts on the organization , to focus on necessary change to what they " see " in order to make it work favorably toward future objectives , and to motivate external and internal forces to move energetically toward the changing course . SUMMARY The executive leaders for ARMY 21 are currently in the system . They must gain a frame of reference for decision making as they grow in maturity and experience . Today's executive has the responsibility to mold a pool of potential executives and to ensure that their growth and development will enable them to deal effectively with the complexities of the 21st century , which appear to be far greater than those that exist today . These capabilities must include : 53 commitment to the Constitutionally-based mission and values of the nation's armed services awareness of the Army's responsibilities as a provider of strategic fighting units for Joint /Combined efforts a broad national and international frame of reference understanding of the level - specific nature of their organization and its work the ability to exercise discretion and judgment at each level of complexity The ultimate task of executive leadership is to reinforce institutional values while providing climate and opportunity for growth , and an acceptance of the risk involved in allowing it to occur . The executive that neglects this critical task has failed an obligation to create future leaders . 54 CHAPTER EIGHT THE EXECUTIVE AS INTEGRATOR It took me a while to realize that being involved in the totality of the military of this country meant that my interest was just about everything , everywhere , all the time . This awareness is absolutely crucial . CINC ( * * * * ) The primary theme of this pamphlet has been to stress the unique and critical responsibilities shared by the Army's executive leaders as they bring together individuals , materiel , and principles of operation to defend national objectives . They are the stewards of the national resources entrusted to them to prepare the principled strategic fighting units necessary to meet current and future requirements . They are accountable to the men and women of the Total Army and to the elected and appointed civilian leadership . They are ultimately accountable to the citizens of the nation for the proper and efficient execution of these responsibilities . The same principles that produce effective battle decisions also create effective organizations . The design of principled organizations is the responsibility of the executive leadership . Such an organization is characterized by : Clearly defined purposes , missions , goals , and objectives that are consistent with society's culture and values . Congruence between the organizational culture , values , and policies stated at the executive level and what is thought at the operating level . Organizational structure consistent with purposes and missions , with no more layers than required by the complexity of the tasks to be performed , and each layer " adding value " to the next . An efficient process structure of procedural subsystems ( information , planning , and control ) . • A human resources system that produces individuals who are professionally and technically qualified , who have job satisfaction , and who are motivated and and dedicated to the organization's mission , purpose , and values . Leaders who are technically and tactically proficient , skilled in communications , strongly motivated , conceptually sound , energetic , and dedicated to the principles of the Constitution . 55 As shown in Figure 12 , the integrating decisions that produce a principled organization ultimately rest at the highest level of uniformed and civilian leadership , the Chief of Staff and the Secretary of the Army . They , however , do not make these decisions in a vacuum . They rely on the collective wisdom of the Total Army's executive leadership to steer the Army's course . That course is set by executive- level policy guidance . Whether or not the organization is moving in the direction of the set course must ultimately be evaluated in the outcomes at the operational level . Executives must have a systematic means ( feedback loops ) of monitoring organizational performance . Operational outcomes and the views of the members of the organization are only one measure . As those responsible for external relationships , executives must be able to monitor the Army's performance as ( 1 ) a component of the greater defense organization , ( 2 ) a servant of the public , and ( 3 ) one of the nation's representatives in alliance organizations . These external perceptions are difficult to assess and even more difficult to change . However , they constitute the executive environment , and are critical to the organization's success . Executives are responsible for the future . In essence , today's Army reflects yesterday's decisions . The decisions that will determine the capabilities of the Army of the 21st Century are being made today . Consensus among the Army's executives is essential to implementing long term organizational change . Likewise , consensus must be built and 1 commitment reached with those external forces that will influence the Army's future . Failure to do so will result in uncoordinated programs , vast expenditures of energy and resources , and an organizational climate of turbulence and disarray . The executive must have as major performance objectives : Envisioning future required operating capabilities Envisioning structure necessary to provide future required operating capability 1 Building consensus within the organization , with appropriate federal agencies and , as required , with international agencies necessary to gain support for future organizational structures 1 Achieving the commitment of the organization , federal agencies , and Congress to provide continued support in moving toward future structures Initiating structural programs with far-distant completion dates that must be institutionalized to be achieved Mentoring and developing future executive leaders Reinforcing institutional values 1 56 THE EXECUTI LEADERS HIP SYSTEM VE CULTURE V S - ALUES YSTEMS MISSION SA /C SA ORGANIZATIONAL INTEGRATOR STRUCTURE FORCE STRUCTURE INFO P , LANNRMAT ING ION AND COMMAN CONTROLD 57 SYSTEMS SYSTEMS LEADERSHIP • VISION ARMY PERSONNEL C • ULTURE I SYSTEMS • NTERDEPENDENCIES CORPS ORGANIZATIONAL DIVISIONS LEADERSHIP BRIGADE LEADERSHIP BATTALION DIRECT LEADERSHIP COMPANY S PLATOON /CQUADRON REW ORGANZATIONAL UNIT PERFORMANCE 12 Figure These responsibilities cannot be delegated . Only executive leaders have the capability to perform these critical tasks . They , therefore , are ultimately accountable for what the Army is and must become . The responsibilities ... are greater than I imagined them to be , and there are greater limitations upon our ability to bring about a favorable result . . . It is much easier to make the speeches than it is to make the decisions , because unfortunately your advisors are frequently divided . If you take the wrong course , and on occasion I have , the executive bears the burden of accountability . ... The advisors may move on to new advice . Army Staff ( * * * * ) | . 1 1 1 58 19 June 1987 DA PAM 600-80 By Order of the Secretary of the Army : JOHN A. WICKHAM , JR . General , United States Army Chief of Staff Official : R. L. DILWORTH Brigadier General , United States Army The Adjutant General DISTRIBUTION : Active Army, USAR , ARNG : To be distributed in accordance with DA Form 12-9A , requirements for DA Pamphlet , Personnel -- General : C and D. ☆ U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1987–181-030401/60005 08-0019 AD 1221 VOSS 323 1920 HOTUBERT 2 Drosser PIN : 062400-000
