~~ ~~ m~®-

J

N
N

-·
I

c:

Sc; MILITARY

j

C::I

,...
:::i= ·

r"" '

LEADERSHIP

,... ,

e r

C,,,1
~·
::s:
::; i

I

HEADQUARTERS,

DEPARTMENT
DECEMBER

I

AGO 2696C-Nov

1958

OF

THE

ARMY

*FM ·22-100
FIELD MANUAL!
No. 22-100

HEADQUARTERS,
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON 25, D. c., 2 December 1958

~·

l

MILITARY LEADERSHIP

Page

2.

Paragraphs
INTRODUCTION
General ____________________ 1, 2
Concepts of military leader3-8
ship.
HUMAN BEHAVIOR ______ 9-14

3.

LEADERSHIP TRAITS ____ 15.-30

19

4.

LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES.

31'-42

37

5.

INDICATIONS OF
LEADERSHIP.

43-49

54

6;

LEADERSHIP PROBLEM
AREAS AND THE
PROBLEM SOLVING
PROCESS.
Problem solving process _____ 50, 51
Problem areas ______________ 52-57

CHAPTER 1.
Section I.
II.
CHAPTER

w

~-~
\d

Section I.
II.
III.
CHAPTER

7.

Leadership of female groups __ 58, 59
LEADERSHIP· ASPECTS
OF ORGANIZATION.

60-63

3
5
12

62
64
75
77

*This manual supersedes FM 22.,-100, 26 February 1953,
including C 1, 11 February 1955; and FM 22-10, 6 March
1951, including C 1, 11 February 1955, and C 2, 17 April 1957.
AGO 2G95C

CHAPTER

8.

APPENDIX I.
II.

Paragraphs

Page

64-73

84

REFERENCES--~--------- ____ _

101

COMBAT EXAMPLES OF
SMALL UNIT LEADERSHIP..

102

LEADERSHIP IN COMBAT.

INDEX----------------------------------------

2

116

AGQ 2695C

CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION,

Section I. GENERAL

'

\'

~

1. Purpose and Scope

a. The purpose of this manual is. ,to provide
military leaders,. 'actual and prospeetive, with a
practical guide for applying the principles of lead:..
ership.
b. The principles and techniques presented .herein are the result of an analysis of outstanding
leadership displayed by .both military and civiliar,t.
leaders. · A thoroughstudy of these principles and
techniques, combined with actual troop application, will develop and fpster the high standard of
leadership so urgently demanded by the complexities of modern warfare. In the final analysis, war
is still waged by men.
. .
' .

'c. The mate~ial presented herein ··is "applicable
without modification to both nuclear' and nonnu~
clear warfare.
2. General Concepts .of Leadership

a. In the ultimate sense, leadership is not inher. ent; it depends upon traits that can be developed
and upon the application of techniques that can be
learned. It· is an art that can be acquired; cultivated, and practiced by anyone having the mental
AGO 26950

and physical ability and the moral integrity expected of a commissioned or noncommissioned
officer. Developing this art is a continuing process
which involves the recognition, acquisition, and
practice of the basic traits· of leadership and the
understanding and application of sound leadership
principles and techniques.
b. This manual stresses the importance of selfimprovement. The principles, character traits, and
procedures set forth are offered to assist the leader
in the problem of controlling others. By examining
these procedures with reference to his own practice
and by analyzing his own traits of character, the
leader will possess a yardstick for measuring his
own success or failure~ Despite this guide, it constantly must be borne in mind that successful
leaders of the past were not all of the same pattern;
not did they all use the same methods of attaining
success. All of them, however, consciously or unconsciously understood the basic concepts of leadership and successfully practiced many of the techniques presented in this manual.
c. It is essential that the student grasp this concept of leadership and understand its relationship
with all that the leader does, says, and thinks. He
must not overlook the vital ingredients of sincerity
and competence, for without these any· suggested
technique will fail. Although the material in this
manual i&, for instructional purposes, divided under
certain principles, techniques and traits, the student should not allow his thinking to fall into these
convenient compartments.
AGO 2696C

"'
l

f

'~

"

d. Effective leadership is a totality-a totality

l

which is a resultant of everything the leader does
in every aspect of his job and in his daily livingwhich contributes to cementing the bonds between
him and his subordinates and between his subordinates and the other members of his group.
Everything that the leader does in his role as
trainer, teacher, administrator, commander, or
counselor contributes to or detracts from the totality of this rela~ionship. The siiriplest correction
or the sternest admonition; a momentary contact
or long· hours of common experience; the briefest
suggestion or the most complete and detailed order
-all have within them the potential of enhancing
or decreasing the leader's effective relationship and
personal influence with his subordinates.
Section II. CONCEPTS OF MILITARY LEADERSHIP
3. The Military Leader

The basic concept of military leadership envisages the leader who, aware of his responsibilities, capitalizes on his strong traits, guides himself
by the principles of leadership, and applies correct
actions and orders to influence and direct his men
favorably and knit them into an effective unit
(fig. I). To successfully accomplish this goal, the
commander must understand men and the reas:ms
for their behavior under various influences. He
must also learn to recognize and evaluate the indications of leadership (par. 4).
AGO 2695C

5

.,,·spRIT [).

~""

TRAITS

I .

.

.-----------.,.---, .

COMMANDER I--+- ACTIONS

AND

0

.

L ~

ORDERS~6

----,....-----

PRINCIPLES

9:~

.

0

"'"'

·co
Cl

...

.

"o....

'!O

THE
COMMAND

iii.

~

;.o

Cll

.;_-

(.)

,~

~

. (. 111/E - p~O~'c;
· Concept of leadership.

>
C'l

. ~

AN
EFFECTIVE
UNIT

4. Definitions

a. Military Leadership. The art of influencing
and.directing men in such a way as to obtain their
willing obedience, confidence, respect, and loyal
cooperation in order to accomplish the mission.
b, Leadership Traits. Personal qualities that are
of direct value to the commander ·in gaining the
willing obedience, confidence, respect, and loyal co- .
operation of his men.
c. · Leadership Principles. Fundamental truths
that are applied by a leader to control or guide his
actions and the actions of his subordinates.
d. Leadership Indications.
(1) ·Morale-the state of mind of· the individual. This depends upon his attitude
toward everything that affects him.
(2) Discipline-the' individual or group atti-'
tude that insures prompt obedjence to
orders and initiation of .appropriate action in the absence of orders.
·
(3) Esprit de corps-loyalty to, pride in, and
.enthusiasm for a unit shown by its members ..
(4) Proficiency-the technical, tactical, and
physical ability of the individual and the
unit.
e. Effective Unit. ·One that will accomplish with
the minimum expenditure of means .and time, any
mission assigned or implied for which it has beeri
organized, equipped, and trained ..
f. Leadership Actions and Orders: Those things
AGO 2695C

7

a leader does to enable him to both influence and
direct his command. The leader's action or order
should(1) Accomplish or aid in the accomplishment
of one or both of the commander's basic
responsibilities.
(2) Be guided by the principles of leadership.
(3) Exhibit the strong traits of the leader.
g. Leader. A person who possesses qualities necessary to direct others; a title used for persons in
charge of units smaller than a company. See note.
h. Commander. Title of an officer in charge of
a company, battery, or larger unit.
Note. This manual makes no distinction between the
terms commander and leader· as the fundamentals of leadership are applicable at all levels of command.

5. Characteristics· of: Leadership

a. Universal Nature of Leadership. The military
profession has no monopoly on lea_dership. In every
walk of Iife, in every industry, in every government, in every phase of human endeavor there are
leaders. Progress and success are dependent upon
the quality and efficiency· of leadership.
b. Elements of Leadership. Leadership involves
understanding, analyzing, predicting, and controlling men's behavior. Also involved in successful
leadership is the will to lead, together with the
character which inspires confidence. Undoubtedly,
there are certain inherent characteristics that may
aid in the development of leadership. Yet, certain
men possessing desirable leadership traits may
8

AGO 2695C

~

•

never attain the stature of great leaders; likewise,
men deficient in certain of these traits may have
attained this stature. Any theory that leadership
is solely inherited· must be rejected. Leadership
is intangible only to the extent that we make it so.
Any reasonably intelligent man, no matter how inexperienced, can become acquainted with the
the component elements of leadership. These elements may be studied, practiced, learned, and
applied, just as any other human accomplishment
may be learned, and mastered.
c. T.he Leader and ·the Small Group. A leader
actually maintains close personal. con tact.with only
a small group,· regardless of the number of men
ultimately controlled by him. Inevitably he must
depend upon. that small group to make his will
known and to execut~ h'is purpose. We refer to the
small group as immediate subordinates and staff.
6. Relat1onship Be1WeE'.". Command and leqdership

a. Authoritarian and Pers.uasive Leadership.
Broadly, there a.re' two kinds of leadership~
authoritarian and persuasive. One who is predominently of the authoritarian type normally is recpgnized by the dogmatic use of authority or power.
The persua~ive .type of. leadership takes into consideration the human element with all its complexity and its differences in the physical, mental, and
emotional capabilities and limitations of .the
individual. To a great extent, the persuasive leader
bases his skill in leadership upon example and
ability, with high standards of discipline and effiAGO 2695C

9

ciency for himself as well as bis followers. The
military leader is normally persuasive, but may be
authoritative, to meet the requirements of a situa·
tion.
b. The Ex~rcise of Command. Command. is the
authority that a member of the military profession
lawfully exerts over subordinates by virtue of his
rank and assignment. Leadership can be exercised
by any one at any time. It is recognized that in any
group some individual will emerge as the leader,
even though no command or organizational structure is present. Individuals in coordinating capacities exercise leadership in their dealing with their
equals· outside the immediate command structure.
In general, however, we think of military leadership as being exercised within this structure;
therefore; in one sense, leadership is the proper
exercise of command.
c. Accompaniments of Command. Command,
with all it implies-administration, planning, executing, supervising, and coordinating-is the primary r'eason for the military leader's existence.
The leader is responsible not only for· initiating
action, but for supervising all activities within his
command. In this responsibility for the general
administration of a group, it is his duty to receive,
comply with, and execute instructions with exact•
ness and thoroughness, regardless of his personal
feelings.
7. Objective of Military Leadership

The objective of military·leadership is the development and maintenance of an effective organiza10

AGO 2696C

V/

tion. The proper application of the principles of
leadership can create a proficient, well-disciplined
organization possessing high morale and esprit de
corps.
'

'"

8. Basic Respo~sib.ilities of. the Comma.nder.

a. The commander has two basic responsibilities;
accomplishment of his mission, and welfar.e of his
men. These basic responsibilities are of equal inip0rtance.. However, in the event. a conflict arises
in the ' mind of the commander regarding these
responsibilities, the· mission must take precedence.
Normally, efficient accor.nplishment' of the mission
help to satisfy the responsibility qf welfare of
the men. .
··
·;

will

• ['!I

b. Command is accompanied by responsibilities
involving speci~l . trust and confidence. The ba.$iC
responsibilities cannot be delegated by
commander to his subordinates. He·afone must shoulder
the responsibility of. the position he occupi~s.

a

A.GO 2695C

11

CHAPTER 2.
HUW..N BEHAVIOR

9. General

The ability to handle men-the art of leadership
-involves understanding, predicting, and controlling men's behavior. The commander (!an do a far
better job if he makes a constant effort to. better
understand himself and the soldiers .. with whom he
serves. He does not need the training of a psychologist, but he must have an understanding of the
basic human behavior patterns in order to obtain
maxirnum effectiveness from his men.
10, Individual Differences Among Men

a. All men are different. Each man's. personality
is the sum total ofhis physical, mental, emotional
characteristics and environment and background.
These characteristics vary from man to man.
( 1) Physical and mental characteristics help
to determine types of work for which a
man is best suited. They also indicate the
types and intensity of physical work h.e
can be expected to perform. Some men
are better at jobs requiring mechanical
ability or dexterity; others are capable
of performing complex mental tasks requiring application, reasoning and intellect. If a· "bright" individual is given a
12

AGO 2695C

J

\.,

dull job, he may become bored and resentful. If a mah is given a job which calls
for more of a particular mental aptitude
than he · possesses, he may become discouraged and resentful. At any rate, a
man (malassigned) in one of these situations will certainly add little to the team
effort.
·. (2) Emotional characteristics are particularly
important parts of a soldier's personality.
The way he reacts to a difficult problem,
to danger, to hardshiP'-all must be understood by the commander. Under pressure, one man may become angered and
another may quit or run away; still another may react very calmly.
b. Not only is each. individual's personality
unique, but it is also constantly changing. A man
·changes physically, mentally, and emotionally as he
matures and gains more experience. Broadly speak,.
ing, three fact9rs tend to shape personality.
(1) Heredity. Each person inherits many
characteristid from his parents. A man
may, for example, inherit the mental
capacity to become a top scientist. Or, he
may inherit the potential to grow to be ·
6 feet tall. Whether or not he will ultimately attain the upper limits of his in- ·
herited potential depends upon his environment and life. experiences.
(2) Environment. Those relatively unchang~
ing aspects of the world as the soldier
AGO 2695C

13

knows it-the family he belongs to, the
church and schools he attends, the types
of food he eats~onstitute his environment. It has a pronounced effect on his
personality. Taking the example of the
soldier who inherits the potential to be a
6 footer, the type of food, the amount of
exercise, the health conditions which are
a part of that soldier's environment may
either permit or prevent him from attaining a height of 6 feet. The individual's envfronment may accele1·ate or retard the development of inherited mental
capacity.
(3) Experiences. Identical twins. may be
reared in the same environment, but they
will still develop different personalities.
One will encounter different experiences
than the other. One may reach a height
of 6 feet while another contracts poliomyelitis and grows no taller than 5 feet
9 inches. The unique experiences which
each person encounters will affect him
mentally and physically. In addition,
these varied experiences will play a definite role in his emotional growth and in
shaping his attitudes.
11. The Roots of Behavior

Certain conditions must be met if the individual's
pattern of behavior is to be socially acceptable and
satisfying to himself. These conditions, or roots of
behavior, may be de.scribed as "basic human
14

AGO 2695C

J

needs." Some are physical, others we acquire
through the learning process as we go through life.

'

I ~

a. Physical Needs. The satisfaction of a physical
need may become a goal which motivates the in ..
dividual to behave iri a specific manner. The physical needs are ·those pertaining to food, drink,
clothing, shelter, and the normal body fupctions.
b. Learned Needs. These result as a man relates the value of certain conditions to his continued
well being. Thfse conditions are security, social
approval, and recognition. ·Learned needs also motivate men to react in a certain manner.
(1) Security. We are able to predict the con.sequences of the course of events to the
point where we can see that certain actions on. our part may result in material
..or physical harm. We tend to alter our
behavior accordingly. Many men wiltrun
grave risks to gain gr~ater security for
the future. No one wants to be. injured,
but physical security is the motive behind
statements such as "kill or be killed" arid
"it's either them or us."
(2) Social approval. The opinions of the group
to which we belong strongly influence our
behavior. Few men will take a course of
action designed to incur the disfavor of
the group. We learn quite early in life
• that we will go much further if we cooperate with the other members of our
society. We run the risk of incurring
both material and physical harm if we
AGO. 26950

15

act counter to the ideals and expectations
of the group.
·
(3) Recognition. Every man feels the need
for frequent tangible proof that he is getting ahead. We work hard to gain. some
measure of success, and if recognition is.
not forthcoming, we will eventually quit
or try some other pattern of behavior.
Even a single pat on the back is often
enough to reassure a subordinate that his
performance is appreciated.

I

l2. Goals and Frustration

a. ·The struggle to satisfy the physical and
learned needs and our past experience in satisfyinJ
these needs, lead us to place certain values on ot,J..
jects in life. Highly valued objects become "goals."
A steak may be a goal when we are hungry. Promotion may be a goal if we are seeking recognition.
b. When we are blocked in our attempts to reach
a certain goal, we may become frustrated. Our
energy is blocked and backs up like water behind
a dam. To some degree we all experience frustrations, varying from minor irritations to major disturbances. The degree of frustration depends on
the value we placed on the goal in question.
c. The outward evidence of frustration may take
many forms-anger, cursing, weeping, and nervousness. Serious frustrations that deny the satisfaction of a need for a long period of time can
cause adverse changes in a man's behavior. Absence without leave may result from a belief by
16

AGO 2695C

j

i

the soldier that he has. not been accepted by his
unit. The soldier whose hard work does not earn
him a promotion or even a word of thanks from
his leaders may develop bitterness that will affect
.not only him but other soldiers.
d. None of us can completely avoid frustration.
Instead, the norma,l person plans ahead so as to
avoid many frustrations and at the .same time takes
steps to adjust to existing .frustrations. He may
alter his methods for attaining particular goals if
the ways he has tried are blocked. He may even
pick different goals which he feels are more attainable.
13. Adjustment

'

a. When a man enters the Army, .he leaves. an
environment in which he had made a reasonably
satisfactory adjustment and enters another filled
with frustrating circumstances. He must make
many physical, mental, and emotional adjustments,
involving altered methods. of atta,ining his g~als
and the choosing of ..new goals. If he can do this
successfully, we say that the soldier has "adjusted."
If the frustrations are too many and too great, the
soldier becomes maladjusted.
b. The problem of adjustment is a real problem
for the Army as well as the soldier. Some 545,000
men were discharged from the service for mental
defectiveness and mental diseases during World
War II. Of these, 50 percent became apparent
within 30 days after. induction; 85 percent became
apparent within six months after induction. Less
AGO 2696C
539933 0 -60 -z

. 17

than 15 percent of all maladjustments became apparent in the battle zone, and of these, the majority
were returned to combat.

c. An analysis of the causes for this loss of manpower and the resultant loss of effectiveness in. all
units revealed, in many instances, that leaders were
not cognizant of the needs of their men; and thetef ore not providing assistance in the satisfaction of
these needs ; in fact, in many cases poor leaders
were actually adding to the men's· adjustment
problems.

'

14. Helping the Soldier to Adjust to Army Life

If the soldier comes to feel consciously or subconsciously that he can satisfy his physical and
learned needs within the Army, adjustment comes
rapidly. A good commander employs many techniques to bring about this adjustment. Some of
the techniques help the soldier find new ways to
reach some of his old goals. Many more of the
commander's techniques serve to ·demonstrate to
the young soldier how the attainment of other new
goals also results in the satisfaction of his needs.
When the soldier accepts these goals .as his own
and realizes that they are also the Army's goals,
and struggles to achieve them, he is well on his
way to becoming the world's finest soldier.

18

AG0.2695C

'

CHAPTER .3
LEADERSHIP TRAITS

15. General

Leadership traits are personal qualities which,
if shown in your daily aetivities;. help you earn
your men's respect, cpnfidence, willing obedience,
and · loyal cooperation.. By . sizfog .up your OWn
strong and weak p9ints, you can develop the leadership traits in. ~hich you are weak and further
strengthen those in which you
strong. The attitudes of the men toward a commander are deter'."
mined by whether their· needs are satisfied· by the·
leader's personal traits. For this reas-on, the traits
of a commander directly affect the behavior of his
men.

are'

16. Essential Traits

•

•.

q,. A study of the lives and ca~eers of successful
commanders reveals that many of the following
pe~sonal· .traits or qualities are. common to all of
them: .
(1) Integrity.
(2) ·Knowledge.
(3) Courage (physical and moral) .
(4) Decisiveness.
(5) Dependabilify.
(6) Initiative.
AGO 2695C

19

(7) Tact.
(8) Justice.
(9) Enthusiasm.
(10) Bearing.
(11) Endurance.

•

(12) Unselfishness.
(13) Loyalty.

(14) Judgment.
b; This list is by no means all-inclusive~ but it
is representative of those de8irable traits in a mm....
tary leader. Paragraphs 17 through 30 describe
each of these traits and give suggestions that will
help you develop them.
17. Integrity

a. Integrity, the uprightness of character and
soundness of .moral principle, the quality of abso- ·
lute truthfulness and honesty, is an indispensable
trait in a leader.
b. On the Armed Forces Team the stakes are too
high to p!,ace the (ives of its members in the hands
of men with questionable integrity. For example,•
battle information is necessary for those responsible for making decisions in combat. In the flow
of reports from the smallest unit to the highest
headquarters, p, departure from strict truth by any
individual can imperil the entire operc:ition. Unless
a man can be relied upon for absolute truthfulness
and honesty, he cannot be relied upon at all. There
iS no possible compromise. The nature of the mili20

AGO 2696C.

•

tary profession does not permit the slightest deviation frQJl1 the highest standards of personal integrity._
c. To develop your personal integrity( 1) Practice absolu_te honesty and truthfulness with yourself at all times.
(2) Be accurate and truthful in all your statemepts, both-official and unoffiCial. (3) Stand for what
you believe .to be. right.
.'
.
(4) Wheneve_r you are tempted_ to compromise, place honesty, sense of _duty, and
moral principles above an else.
18. Knowledge

a. _Nothing - attracts confidence and respect
more quickly than demonstrated knowledge-acquired information, including professional. knowledge and an understanding of your subordinates. ·
The man who knowsJiis job builds ·confidence in
himseif as well -as in others~ Lack of knowledge
cannot be concealed; you cannot blhff your men. If
you do not know the answer to a particular ques:..
tion; admit -it; then take steps to g.et the informa:..
tion.
- - ·
·
b . .Your knowledge ishould nof be 'limited to
military· subjects.• A gerieral fQnd of informatfori,
particularly on national and international events,
- will make you a more rou:rided personality;
c. To increase your knowledge......,. .
(1) Keep a inifitary fil,~ -and a small library.
AGO 2695C

21

. (2) Study field manuals and other military
literature such as regulations, training
directives, battle operations, and past
military campaigns.
(3) Read the service periodicals and books on
the Department of the Army reading
list.
( 4) Read the daily newspapers and weekly
magazines; try to evaluate current news
impartially and correctly.
(5) Form the habit of developing serious
conversations on military subjects.
(6) Evaluate your experience and the experience of others.
(7) Be alert; listen; observe; conduct re.search· on matters you do. not understand.
19. Courage (Physical and Moral)

a. Courage is a mental quality that recognizes
fear a/ danger or criticism but ·enables a man to
proceed in the face of it w'ith calmness and firmness. It is a quality of mind that gives a man
co_ntrol over himself, enabling him to accept responsibility and to act in a dangerous situation. It i,s
vital to leadership.
b. The leader must have moral as 'Yell as physical courage. Moral courage: means .knowing and
standing for what is right ·in the face of popular
disfavor. A leader w~o has moral courage will
admit his errors, but will enforce his decisions
when sure he is correct.
22

AGO' 2695C

.c. T.o ·help yourself .~ttain . and demonstrate
courage( 1) Study an.d understand your emotion of
fear.
··
(2) Control your: ·fear.. by developing · selfdiscipli~e an'ct 'calmn~s~.
(3) Speak in a calm ton.e; keep an orderliness
in your thought process; don't exaggerate
physical d::triger or adversity in your
own mind.
.< 4) If you fear doing certain things in your
i:Iaily life, ·force y.oiirself ·to. do these
things until you conquer them.
(5) Stand for what. is right in the face of
popular co;ndemnation.
(6) Look for and readily accept responsibili~
ties.
·
, (7) Accept th~ blame ·when you are at fault.
20. Decisiveness

to

a. The ·leader should have )he ability
reach .
decisions promptly and to· annoqnce them in a
.
· . ·
clear, forceful m~mier.
b. Every situation offers. a ·variety of solutions.
The wise leader gets au·· the fads, weighs one .
against the. other, and calmly and quickly arrives
at a sound decision. Decisiveness . is largely a
matter of practice and experience.
·
c. To develop deci,siveness__:.:_ ·
(1) Learn to be positive in your. actions.
Don't delay; don't "beat .. around the
. bush."
AGO .. i6!15C

23

(2). Get the facts, ·make up your mind, and
then issue your order with confidence.
(3) Check decisions you have made to determine if they were sound and timely.
(4) Check decisions made by others. If you
do not agree, thirik why; then determine
if your reasons · for ·disagreement are
sound.
(5) Broaden your viewpoint by studying the
. actions of others.
(6) Take advantage ·of the experience of
others tOle~rn fronitheir mistakes.

"*

21. Dependability

a. Dependability, the certainty of proper perform.ance of duty, is a quality the leader must
develop.
b. The dependable leader is. one who can be
relied. upon to carry out actively, intelligently, .and
with willing effort the intent of his comm.ander.
This willing and voluntary compliance · with the
plans and will of the superior does not mean blind
and dog-like obedience. Most commanders will
listen to the suggestions of their subordinates, but
once the commander makes the final decision, the
subordinate must give it his .complete and energetic
support.
c. A military duty is an obligation to be· performed. Thus a high sense of duty results in a
high standard of performance, a constant and continuous effort to give the best a leader has in him.
Duty demands the sacrifice of personal interests in
AGO .2695C

f.

favor of military demands, rules and regulations,
orders and procedures, and the welfare of subordinates.
d. To develop dependability..,....(1) Do not make excuses.
(2) Do every task assigned to you to the best
of your ability, regardless of personal
beliefs.
(3) Be exact in details.
( 4) Form the habit of being punctual.
(5) Follow orders to the letter in spirit and
fact.
(6) Give adequate attention to the general
welfare of your men.
22. Initiative

a. Initiative, seeing what has to be done and
commencing a course of action, even in the. absence
of orders, is necessary in all grades. Encourage
in.itiative among your subordinates by giving them
duties on a level with their grade and then allowing them to work out the details and finish the
job. This does not mean that yon can deal out the
tasks and then do nothing else. You ·must know
the jobs well enough to supervise properly. Furthermore, you must retain for yourself those functions that are exclusively the commander's.
Soldiers unite quickly behind a commander who
meets new and unexpected situations with prompt
action.
b. Closely allied with initiative is the quality of
resourcefulness, the ability to deal with a situation
AGO 2695C

25

in the absence of normal means or methods. Military supply, organization, and training are designed to meet all normal situations, but they
sometimes fail, particularly under combat conditions where the unexpected is normal. Inactivity
or passive acceptance of an unsatisfactory situation because of lack of normal means or ways of
dealing with it is never justified.
c. To develop initiative(1) Stay mentally and physically alert.
(2) Train yourself to recognize tasks that
need to be done and do them without
having to be told and without hesitation.
(3) Think ahead.
23. Tact

a. Tact is the ability to deal with others without creating offense. In the field of human relations, tact is the ability to say and do the proper
thing at the proper time. It is an understanding
of human nature and a consideration for the feelings of others.
b. Tact is particularly important in those contacts with subordinates in which the personal element is involved. Criticism has to be made in such
a way that what is meant will be clearly apparent,
yet will neither cause discouragement nor detract
from the drive and energy of the subordinate.
Every commander needs tact in helping those men
who come to him with personal problems. These
often involve family relations and other personal
matters that are accompanied by embarrassment
26

AGO 2695C

~-

or shame. Avoid judging such situations; your
role is that of counselor only and it calls for common sense in making suggestions. Sometimes the
highest degree of tact is simply to listen with
sympathetic attention and interest, finding out
what the soldier's own solution is. You may
confirm his solution or suggest a different one.

a

c. Courtesty is
part of tact that you cannot
afford to neglect in your relations ·with subordinates. To demand, yet fail to return courtesy
in full measure indicates either arrogance or a
lack of interest. The inexperienced officer or noncommissioned officer often feels that politeness in a
military command implies softness; or worse, that
from a subordinate it smacks of "bootlicking."
Nothing is further from the truth. Courtesy is a
matter both of words and actions. One leader may
bark. out his orders impersonally and abruptly.
Another may give his orders in a tone tinged with
a courtesy that implies the expectancy of obedience, Either method may get obedience, but the
second of the two will get more willing obedience
and cooperation. IJ1 tjmes of emergency, abrupt
rapid fire orders. become desirable because they
save time and there is no need to imply expected
obedience. There are other times, too, when a
forceful tone can well replace a courteous tone ;
but even then there is no reason for outright discourtesy. Usually, a calm, courteo,us, though firm
mode of address, will bring the readiest response.
Thus tact and courtesy are closely tied in with
manner, language, and bearing.
AGO 2695C

27

d. To develop tact--'-

( 1) Be courteous and cheerful.
(2) Be considerate of others.
(3) Study the actions of successful officers
who enjoys a reputation for being skilled
in human relations.
( 4) Study different types of personalities;
gain a knowledge of human nature.
(5) Develop the habit of cooperating in spirit
as well as in fact.
( 6) Check yourself for tolerance; if at fault,
correct this deficiency.
(7) Treat others as you desire to be treated.
24. Justice

a. Justice is the quality of being impartial and
consistent in exercising command. Justice involves
the rendering of reward and the meting out of
punishment in accordance with the merits of the
case. Anger and other emotions must not enter into
a situation. Prejudice of race or creed must be
avoided. Few things will disrupt the morale of an
organization more quickly than unfairness or
partiality of a leader toward a certain man or
group of men.
b. As a leader you are called upon to render
justice in such matters as promotions and punishment.·· Your decisions are a test of your fairness.
It takes a long time to build up a reputation among
your men for being fair. One thoughtless error or
one injustice can destroy a good reputation that
took months to establish.
28

AGO 2696C

..,,

~·

c. To render .justice, you. must understand human behavio.r. Study people with the idea of
learning why certain types behave the way they
do under certain conditions and others behave
differently und.er the sam.e conditi9ns, Analyze the.
cases that have been decided and determine what
you would have done had you been the. one to make
the decJsion. This, of course, is a private process
and should never be used as an occasion to criticize
the decision of another leader.
d. To develop this trait of justice--:(1) Be impersonal and impartial when imposing punishment.
(2) Consider every offense referred to you on
its own merits.
(3) Search your mental attitudes to determine
if you hold any prejudices and, if so, rid
your mind of them.
( 4) Analyze cases acted upon by officers who
have a reputation for being just.
(5) Be impartial. Play no favorites.
( 6) Be honest with yourself.
(7) Recognize juniors worthy of commendation or award. Don't be known as one who
dispenses only punishment.
25. Enthusiasm

a. Enthusiasm is the display of sincere interest
and exuberance in the per/ormance of duties. It
implies that you approach your work with a cheerful and optimistic attitude, determined .to do a
AGO 2696C

29

good job. This attitude is necessary because your
example will be copied by those you lead.
b. An important part of enthusiasm is your performance of tasks with vigor, because of willingness
and gratification in accomplishment, rather than
doing them half-heartedly merely because you must
do them. Enthusiasm is particularly important in
instructing and training, where, through example,
your interest and enthusiasm are reflected by
your men.
c. To develop enthusiasm(1) Understand and believe in your mission.
(2) Be cheerful and optimistic.
(3) Explain to your men the "why" of uninteresting and distasteful jobs.
( 4) Capitalize on success. Enthusiasm is
contagious and nothing will develop it
more than the success of the unit or
individual.
(5) Don't get stale. Set aside1a period every
day to free your mind of official matters
and relax.
'
26. Bearing

a. Bearing, creating a favorable impression in
carriage, appearance, and personal conduct at all
times, deserves the attention of all leaders. Your
carriage should be upright, your general appearance and the condition of your clothing ·and equiPment should establish the standard for the rest of
your unit, and you should show life and energy in
your actions and movements.
30

AGO 28HC

b. By your appearance and manner, you must
express competence and confidence, often to a degree beyond what you actually feeL By exercising
control over your voice and gestures,. you can exert
a firm and steadying influence, especially in combat. All good leaders know that their apparent
confidence in themselves, in their troops, and in the
situation is reflected in their men. Few things can
better maintain the morale of troops than the
realization that their leader, with full knowledge
of the difficulties of a situation, neither looks nor
acts worried as perhaps he has a right to do. Too
much severity, austerity, and strictness of manner
balk the sympatby. and confidence you must have
from your men. Frequent irritation and uncontrolled displays of temper indicate that you do not
have even yours~lf in.hand.
c. Language is another of the outward marks by
which you will be judged and through which ·you
have an ever present influence on your men. Speak
plainly and simply. Make your sentences short,
simple, positive, and direct. If you must use terms
that may not be clearly understood, ex~lain their
meaning~ At the same time, avoid talking down
to your men.

d. Immoderate language almost always produces
unfavorable results both in the individual and in
the unit. 'l'o use profane or obscene language and
to permit its use by subordinate leaders, especially
in giving orders, is to risk friction, resentment,
quarreling, and even insubor.dination. Men resent
being sworn at by their superiors. They feel,· and
AGO 2695C

31

rightly so, that the superior has taken unfair advantage of his authority. The same applies to any
imm·oderate language. A "bawling out'' is commonly resented as a personal attack. It is, in fact,
more often an expression of anger than a proper
correction. The more or less iqipersonal point at
issue is lost, and the matter becomes a mental clash
between individuals. Likewise, the use of im;.
moderate language, or of any language, in wholesale criticism and condemnation of a group should
be particularly avoided. It is riot likely that you
will ever have a unit that will de~erve a wholesale
reprimand. Nothing creates resentment so readily
in a subordinate as to be included unfairly with
others who may deserve disciplinary action. This
is true n'ot only of your language· but of all gene.ral
punishments. If· violent language ever has any
basis for use, reserve it for an extreme emergency
on the battlefield. ·A tcingue-fashing at that time
may have a stimulating and ~teadying effect, but it
is lost if such speech is habitual.
. e. Sarcasm andirony se'Idorn bring good results.
Many 'men do not understand sarcasm and irony
and are never quite sure what their leader mean,s.
Even a bantering tone should not be used often.
This does not mean that a joke can never be used,
but too much wisecracking by the leader inevitably
results in wisecrack replies from his troops. The
American soldier is too accustomed to this· kind of
talk to resist cracking back if he thinks he can get
away With it. He will have reason to think he can
get away with it ·if he is always on the receiving
32

AGO 2695C

end of such remarks. At the same time, any wise
leader will know that in some circumstances a certain amount of joking is helpful. When there is
discouragement in the air or when exhausted troops
must be called upon for· another effort, a flash of
humor helps greatly. It tends to give. confidence
in time of stress, even in the midst .of the mcst
confused and strenuous combat. Indeed it is often
the American way of ·implying sympathy and
understanding~ven cooperation-in the midst of
difficulty.
f. A l~ader sho.uld be dignified. Dignity implies
a state of being worthy or honorable. It requires
the control of one's actions and emotions. A leader
who makes a spectacle of himself through loudness, /
drink, or lack of .·emotional control quickly loses
the respect of his men.
g. To develop the manner, language, and bearing
of a leader( 1) Require of yourself the highest standards
in appearance and conduct.
(2) Know and adhere to regulations concerning dress and conduct.
( 3) Avoid use of vulgar speech.
(4) If you drink liquor, _drink moderately.
(5) Avoid coarse behavior.
(6) Habitually maintain a dignified demeanor.
(7) Avoid making a spectacle of yourself.
(8) Know when to be seen, both officially and
socially. Anticipate when your presence
or absence may embarrass yourself and
others.
AGO 2695C
539933 0-60 -3

33

27. Endurance .

a. Endurance, the mental and physical stamina
measured by the ability to stand pain, fatigue,
distress, and hardship, is akin to courage. It is one
of the most important ,qualities in determining
leadership ability. You must have it if you are to
command the proper respect from subordinates. A
lack of endurance may be confused with lack of
courage and brand the leader who is in poor physical condition as a coward. Endurance implies the
ability to stick to a job and see it through.
b. To develop physical and mental stamina-'( 1) Avoid nonessential activities that will
lower stamina. ·
(2) Cultivate "physical ·training habits that
will strengthen your body; learn to stand
punishment by undertaking difficult physical tasks.
(3) Test your endurance by frequently subjecting yourself to unusual physical and
mental exercises.
( 4) Force yourself to continue on occasions
when you are· tired and your mind. is
sluggish.
(5) Form the habit of· finishing every task to
the best of your abilities.

...

··-'

28. Unselfishness

a. The unselfish leader is one who avoids providing for his own comfort and personal advancement
at the expense of others. Put the comfort,
pleasures, and recreation of subordinates before
34

AGO 2695C

I

i

your own. If the unit is commended for some outstanding work, pass along the credit for the
achievement to the subordinates who made it possible. No subordinate can respect a superior who
takes the credit for. the good work and ideas, and
who makes sure that his subordinates get the blame
for the unsatisfactory work. To be a true leader,
you must share the same dangers,. hardships, and
discomforts as your men.
b. To beeome an unselfish leader-'( l) Avoid using your position and rank to
enhance your personal gain, safety, or
pleasure at the expense of others.
(2) Be considerate of the problems, military
or personal, of your men and assist them
where appropriate.
(3) Give credit to your subordinates for work
well, done.
29. loyalty

a. This is the quality of faithfulness to country,
the Army, your unit, and to your senior and subordinates. This quality alone can do much to earn
for you the confidence and respect of your ·senior
and subordinate associates. Your every action must
reflect loyalty to .your command. Be careful not. to
betray the command by discussing its problems
outside of your organization.
b. To demonstrate the quality of loyalty(1) Be quick to defend your subordinates
from abuse.
AGO 2695C

35

(2) Never give the slightest hint of disagreement with orders from your senior when
relating instructions to subordinates.
(3) Practice doing every task to the best of
your ability and wholeheartedly supporting your commander's decisions.
( 4) Never discuss the personal problems of
your associates with others.
(5) Stand up for your country, your Army,
your unit, and your associates when they
are unjustly accused.
(6) Never criticize your seniors in the
presence of subordinates nor permit such
discussions among subordinates.
30. Judgment

a. Judgment is the quality of weighing facts and
possible solutions on which to base sound decisions.
Enhance your judgment by being as technically
qualified as possible.
b. To improve your judgment( I) Practice making estimates of the situation.
(2) Anticipate those situations of the military
profession that require decisions, so that
you are prepared when the need arises.
(3) Be careful to avoid making rash decisions.

36

AGO 2696C

CHAPTER 4
LEADERSHIP p·RINCIPLES.

31. leadership Principles

Certain fundamentals are habitua,lly followed by
successful leaders in making -deci.sions .and taking
action .. The fundamentals used .for the proper
exercise of command are known as leadership
principles. These are listed and expl;lined in paragraphs 32 through 42.
32; Principle l:._Be Technical:y and Tactically Proficient

•

a. To know your job thoroughly, you must
possess a wide field of knowledge. You should be
tactically able .in the :field of combat operations and
understand all of the technical aspects of your
command ..
b. Techniques for application.
(1) Seek a well-rounded military education
through; a.ttendance at service schools and
through independent reading, . research,
and study.
(2) Keep abreast of. latest techniques in the
·field of ·communication to facilitate control of your unit and ·to disseminate
information.
(3) Seek out and foster·. association with
capable leaders. Observe and study their
AGO 2696C ·

actions and application of leadership
techniques.
(4) Broaden your field of knowledge through
association with officers and men of other
arms and services".
(5) Seek opportunity to apply knowledge
through the exercises of command. Real
leadership is acquired only through constant practice.
( 6) A void overspecialization.
(7) Keep abreast of current military developments.
(8) By study and through frequent visits to
subordinates, familiarize yourself with
the capabilities and limitations of all elements of your command.
(9) Develop techniques for measuring performance of the unit.
(10) Develop skill as an instructor.
(11) Take every opportunity to prepare yourself for command at the next higher
ecqelon.
33. Principle II-Know Yourself and Seek Self-Improvement

a. It is your duty to evaluate yourself and
recognize your own strengths and weaknesses. No
one can become a successful leader until he knows
his own capabilities and limitations and is, in tact,
the master of himself. Strive to develop desirable
traits of leadership as discussed in chapter 3.
b. Techniques for application.
(1) Analyze yourself obj~ctively to determine
38

AGO 2695C

"

the strong and weak points of your character. Make an effort to overcome the
weak ones.
(2) Solicit, when appropriate, the candid
opinions of others as to how you can make
the most of your desirable qualities and
eliminate the undesirable ones.
(3) Profit by studying the causes for the
success or failure of other leaders past
and present.
( 4) Develop a genuine interest in people;
acquire the human touch.
(5) Treat others as you desire to be treated.
(6) Master the art of good writing and
speaking.
(7) Cultivate cordial relations with members
of the other arms and services and with
civilians.
(8) Develop a philosophy of life and of work.
Have a definite goal and plan to attain
it.
34. Principle 111-"'Know Your Men and Look Out for Their
Welfare

•

a. You will have a better understanding of how
your subordinates react and function under various
conditions when you make a· conscientfous .effort to
observe them, become personally acquainted with
them, and recognize their individual differences.
You should antici pa te1 and make provisions for the
needs of your men. By doing so you win their
AGO 2695C

39

willing obedience, confidence, respect, and loyal
cooperation.
b. Techniques for application.
( 1) See the members of your command and
let them see you; be friendly and
approachable.
(2) Develop an intimate knowledge and understanding of your subordinates through
personal contact and available records.
In small commands, it is imperative not
only that the leader know and address
his subordinates by name, but also that
he be familiar with their characteristics.
(3) Interest yourself in the living conditions
of the members of your command, including their family environment, food, clothing, and billeting.
(4) Make. ample provision for, and give personal and visible attention to, the various
personnel services including recreation,
particularly those concerned with the
personal problems of individuals.
( 5) Provide for the spiritual welfare of your
command by supporting religious activities.
( 6) Protect the health of your command by
active supervision of hygiene and sanitation.
(7) Support actively a safety program.
(8) Determine the mental attitude of members of .your command by frequent inAGO 2695C

,_

formal visits and by using fully all available sources of information.
(9) Administer justice impartially to all
without fear or favor. When punishment
is necessary, you should- •
(a) Be fair, consistent, prompt, and impersonal.
( b) Punish in private, with dignity, and
with human understanding;
(c) Never impose degrading punishment.
(d) Avoid punishing a group for the faults
of an individual.
( e) Always make the individual feel that
the punishment is temporary and that
improvement is expected.
(10) Insure fair and equitable distribution of
passes, leaves, rotation, a.nd other privi. leges ..
(11) Encourage educatibnal development by
providing educational opportunities for
members of your command.
(12) Provide sufficient athletic and recreational
facilities. within the organization, and
insure that your command is receiving its
share of quotas for recreation areas and
entertainment benefits.
(13) Share the problems of your men so that
you may better understand them.
35. Principle IV-Keep Your Men Informed

a. All men want to know how well they have
done and what will further be expcted of them.
AGO 2695C

41

The individual who is well informed, commensurate with security requirements, as to the situation
and his mission is more effective than one who is
uninformed. Keeping a man informed promotes
initiative and improves morale. This includes passing information down as well as up.
b. Techniques for application.
(1) Explain to your principal subordinates
why any particular task must be accomplished and how you propose to do it.
(2) Assure yourself by frequent inspections
and visits that subordinates are transmitting necessary information to the
men.
(3) Keep your principal subordinates informed of plans for future operations,
subject only to security restrictions.
( 4) Disseminate information concerning the
capabilities of our weapons compared to
those of an active or potential enemy.
Where an enemy has an initial advantage,
show how this can be overcome.
( 5) Be sure the troops are informed of the
capabilities and limitations of supporting
units, arms, and services.
( 6) Be alert to detect the spread of false
rumors. Stop rumors by replacing them
with truth.
(7) Build confidence and esprit de corps by
exploiting all information concerning
successes of the command.
(8) Keep your unit informed about current
42

AGO 2frnaC

'

legislation affecting their pay, promotion,
privileges, etc.
36. Principle V-"-Set the Example

a. Men instinctively look to you for e:J!:amples
that they may ·follow or use as an.· excuse for their .
own shortcomings. Your individual appearance and
conduct must evoke from your subordinates praise,
pride, and a desire to emulate you. Set the standard
:for your en~ire command by outstanding performance of duty. The commander who appears in an
unfavorable light before his men destroys the
mutual respect that must exi,st:between a leader and
his men.
b. Techniques for application;:
(1) Be at all times physically fit, mentally
alert, well groomed, and correctly
'dressed .. ·
·

:r

(2) Master your emotions, The commander
who is subject to intemperate bursts of
anger or to perfods <>f depression will
have difficulty in gaining arid holding the
respect and· loyalty of· his subordinates.
· (3) Maintainan. optimistic outlook. The will
to ·win is . infectious. , Foster it by
capitalizing on your unit's capabilities
and successes, not ori its .limitations or
failures. Maintain an air of outward
calmness. The more difficult the situation, the m.ore important this becomes.
(4) Conduct yourself so that your personal
habits are not open to censure. Coarse
AGO 2695C

43

behavior and vulgarity are the marks of
an essentially weak and unstable character; these, together with a failure to be
punctual and a tendency toward selfishness and self-indulgence in luxuries not
available to the command in general, are
inevitably resented by all ranks.
(5) Cooperate in spirit as well as in fact.
Cooperation must work in two directions.
It arises from a wholehearted desire by
all members to further the effective operations of the team.
( 6) Exercise initiative and promote the spirit
of initiative in your subordinates.
(7) Be conspicuously loyal to those below you
as well as to thoi;e .above you. Support
those under you as long as they discharge
their duties conscientiously. The commander who seeks to protect an incompetent subordinate from correction by a
higher commanqer is, , however, himself
disloyal. Loyalty is a primary trait of
leadership and demands unqualified support of the policies of superior officers,
whether the individual concerned personally favors them or not.
(8) Avoid the development of a clique of
favorites. While it is di,fficult to avoid
being partial to subordinates who have
rendered loyal and superior service over
a period of time, the temptation to show
partiality should be vigorously resisted.
AGO 2695C

•

'

(9) Be morally courageous. The commander
who fails to stand by his principles where
the welfare of his command is concerned,
or who attempts to avoid the responsibility for mistakes of his command, will
fail to gain or hold the respect of his
associates or subordinates.
(10) Share danger and hardship. A leader
who has elements of his command subject
to danger or to hardship of any kind
should visit them .as often as possible to
demonstrate without ostentation his willingness to assume his share of the
difficulties.
37. Principle VI-Insure That the Task is Understood, Supervised, and Accomplished

,,

a. Give clear, concise orders that cannot be misunderstood. Then supervise to make sure that the
order is properly executed. This is the most difficult part to carry out. The able leader makes wise
use of his subordinates to carry out his orders
effectively. Any commander who fails to make
proper and adequate use of his staff and subordinates demonstrates a fundamental weakness in
leadership ability.
b. Techniques for application;;
(1) Through study and practice, develop the
ability to think clearly and to issue clear,
concise, positive orders.
(2) Encourage subordinates to seek immediate· clarification about any point in your
AGO 2695C

45

orders or directives that they do not
understand.
(3) Question your subordinates and assistants to determine· if there is any doubt
or misunderstanding as to the task to be
performed.
(4) Supervise the execution of your orders.
Your supervision must be firm and you
must be insistent that your .desires be
carried out.
(5) Make every means possible available to
your subordinates to assist· them in accomplishing their mission~ Instruct your
staff to be as helpful and loyal to your
subordinates as your staff is helpful and
loyal to you.
(6) Supervise the execution ofyour orders by
personal visits. When appropriate, re.quire your staff officers to do the same.
(7) Insure that the need for an order exists.
(8) Utilize the established chain of command.
(9) Vary your supervisory routine and the
points which you emphasize during inspections.
( 10) Exercise thought and care in supervision.
Over-supervision stifles initiative and
creates resentment; under-supervision
will not get the job done.
38. Principle VII-Train Your Men as a Team

a. It is your duty to develop teamwork through
training of your command. Teamwork is the key
46

AGO 2695C

•
;

to successful operations; it starts in the smallest
unit and carries through to the largest organization. (Teamwork concerns all ~spects of military
operations.) The military organization involves
many different arms and services, all working
together as a team toward a common goal. Each
member of the team must understand where he
fits into the effort. The commander who fosters
teamwork while training his command will obtain
the desired degree of unit proficiency. Good teamwork requires good discipline, morale, and esprit
de corps.
b. Techniques for application.
( 1) Insure by inspections and training tests
that your command is being trained in
accordance with training programs and
doctrine prescribed by higher authority.
(2) Make sure that the best available facilities for team training are provided and
that maximum use is made of such devices as communication drills, battle
drills, and realistic field exercises.
(3) Insure that all training is purposeful and
that the reasons for it are stressed.
( 4) Insure that each element of the command
is acquainted with the capabilities and
limitations of an other elements, thereby
developing mutual trust and understanding.
(5) Insure that each subordinate leader understands the mechanics of tactical control for his own echelon of command.
AGO 2695C

47

(6) Predicate team training on modern realistic conditions.
(7) Insist that each officer and enlisted man
know the functions of each other officer
and enlisted man with whom he habitually
operates. Insist that each of these know
and understand each other, their traits,
peculiarities, strengths, and weaknesses.
(8) Demand the highest standard of teamwork in all training.
(9) Seize opportunities to train with other
units, both combat and service.
(10) Show each man his responsibilities and
the importance of his role to the overall
effectiveness of the unit.
39. Princ;iple VIII-Make Sound and Timely .Decis"ons

a. You must have the ability to make a rapid
estimate of the situation and arrive at a: sound
decision. You must be able to reason logically
under the most trying conditions and decide quickly
what action is necessary to take· advantage of opportunities as they occur. The vacillating commander not only is unable to employ his command
effectively but also creates hesitancy, loss of confidence, and indecision within his command. When
circumstances dictate a: change in plans, act
promptly and without fear that the command may
consider such action indecisive. Proper planning
ahead will lay the ground work for sound and
timely decisions. Acquire the ability to make sound
and timely decisions through constant study and
training.
.48

AGO 2696C

..

b. Techniques for application.
(1) Devel~p a logical and orderly thought
process by constant practice in making
objective estimates of the situation.
Making an estimate is not restricted to
the military. It is employed in the everyday life of all persons.
(2) So far as time and occasion permit, plan
for every contingency that ean reasonably
be foreseen.
(3) Consider the advice and suggestions of
your subordinates before making your
own decisions.
( 4) Announce decisions in time to allow subordinates to make necessary plans.
(5) Encourage concurrent estimates and
planning in the various echelons of your
command.
(6) Always make sure that your staff is
. familiar wi.th your current policies and
plans.
(7) Consider the effects of your selection on
subordinates and supporting elements .
.40. Principle IX-Devel~p a Sense of Responsibility Among
Subordinates

a. Proper delegation of authority accompanied
by proper supervision engenders trust, faith, and
confidence. It develops initiative and wholehearted
cooperation. Reluctance to delegate authority often
is a mark of retarded development in leadership.
AGO 2696C
539933 0 -60 -4

49

b. Techniques for application.
(1) Utilize the chain of command. at every
feasible opportunity.
(2) Tell your subordinates what to do, not
how to do it; hold them responsible for
results. Delegate and supervise, but do
not int~ryehe except when necessary.
Avoid usurping the prerogatives of your
subordinates.
(3) Provide all possible personnel with frequent opportunities to perform duties of
the next higher echelon.
( 4) Be quick to recognize accomplishments of
your subordinates when they demonstrate initiative and resourcefulness.
(5~ Correct errors in the use of judiznent and
initiative in such a way as to encourage
t~ individual. Avoid public criticism or
condemnation. Be liberal in openly giving
praise which is deserved.
(6) ·Give unstintingly of help and advice when
it is requested by those under your commimd.
(7) Insure that your personnel are assigned
positions commensurate with demonstrated or potential ability. .
(8) Be prompt and fair in backing subordi;nates to the limit. Until convinced otherwise, have faith ;in each subordinate.
. (9) Demonstrate to your command that you
are ready and willing to accept responsibility.
50

AGO 2696C

"'

41. Principle X-Employ Your Command in Accordance
With Its Capabilities
a.· You must have a thorough knowledge of

I

•

capabilities and limitations of your command if
you are to employ it properly. Individuals in your
command must be assigned duties commensurate
with their capabilities. You must use sound judgment in the employment of your unit. Failure to
accomplish the mission causes. a loss of confidence,
which in turn clestroys efficiency and brings about
the collapse of morale and esprit de ~orps; ·
b. Techniques for application;
(l) Know, understand, and apply the principles of war.
(2) Keep yourself informed as to the relative
operational e£.'3Ctiveness of various ele:.
ments of your command.
(3) Be sure that the accomplishment of tasks.
assigned to subordinates is reasonably
possible, but do not hesitate to demand
their utmost effort in order to achieve a
quick victory or to avoid defeat.
(4) Analyze any task assigned. If means at
your disposal appeai; 1 inadequate, inform
your immediate commander and request
additional means.
(5) Make every effort to equalize tasks proportionately, over appropriate periods of
time, among the several elements of your
command.
··
· (6) Utilize the full capabilities of your unit ·
before requesting assistance.
AGO l:.,~6C

51

42. Principle Xl-,-Seek Responsibility and Take Responsibility for Your Actions

a. You must seize the initiative in the. absence of
orders. By seeking responsibility, you develop
yourself professionally and increase your ability.
Accept responsibility for all your unit does or fails
to do .
. b. Techniques for application.
(1) Learn the duties and l'esponsibilities of
your immediate supervisor.
(2) Seek diversified assignments that will
give you responsibility and command
experience.
(3) Take advantage of any opportunity that
offers increased responsibility.
(4) Perform every task, large or small, to the
best of your ability. Your reward will
consist of i;icreased opportunity to demonstrate your 4.tness to perform bigger
and more important tasks.
'
(5) Remember that you are responsible for
all your command does or fails ·to do.
(6) Accept justified criticism and admit
mistakes.
(7) Adhere to what you think is right; have
the courage of your convictions.
(8) Insure that a subordinate leader's failure
was not due to some error on your part
before considering his relief. Get to the
basic cause of his failur~manpower is
52

AGO Z69oC

valuable-and his replacement may be
worse.
(9) Seize the initiative when a decision must
be made and specific orders from higher
headquarters are not forthcoming. Do
what you think your superior would order
if he were present.

.·.r.

AGO llHC

53

CHAPTER 5
INDICATIONS. OF LEADERSHIP

43. General

a. There are four characteristics of a command
that are indications of success or failure in the
exercise of leadership-morale, discipline, esprit
de corps, and proficiency. This manual treats these
characteristics as the indications of leadership.
You are obligated to continuously evaluate your
unit using these indications of leadership as a
gage. This is the only sound way for you to know
whether your unit is effective and able to perform
its mission.
b. As you evaluate your unit . you will discover
problems that are having an adverse effect on one
or more of the indications of leadership and are
undermining the effectiveness of your unit. The
following paragraphs define each of the indications
and give methods for evaluating and developing
them.
44. Interrelationship of the Four Indications
All four of the indications of leadership contrib- ·
ute to the degree of effectiveness of a unit, and all
are to some extent interdependent. No absences
without leave for· period of time, for example,
may well indicate high morale and good discipline.
Therefore, some of the items listed under morale

a

AGO 26960

will necessarily appear under discipline, proficiency, and esprit de corps. Although discipline,
esprit de corps, and proficiency are dependent on
the degree of morale present, all four ·should be
considered of equal importance; The other three
are dependent upon morale because it is the sum
total of all the attitudes of the individual. It can
be said that morale is the fertile soil in which
the seeds of discipline, esprit de corps, and proficiency are sown. Thus, while. you should strive for
morale, initially, your efforts must alwaysbe directed toward building up all of the indications of
leadership to a high degree, as the .absence or
lessening of one will soon destroy theothers.
45 .. Morale

a. General. Morale.may be defined as the individual's state of mind-how he feels about himself,
his fellow soldiers, Army life in. general, ·and all
the other things that seem important to him. It is
closely related to his needs. If your actions in the
training, operations, administration, and fighting
of your unit, satisfy the basic needs of your men, .
ydu Will produce favorable attitudes in them. High
morale gives the soldier a feeling of conf.dence and
well-being that enables him to face hardship with
courage, endurance, and determination.
b. Evaluation of Morale.
(1) Morale does not remain constant .but is
continuously changing. The state of
morale of the members of your unit is an
important index to the effectiveness with
which you are using the principles and
AGO 2695C

55

techniques of leadership. You can measure morale by close observation of your
tnen in their daily activities, by inspections, by formal and informal interviews,
and by the evaluation of administrative
and operational reports. Specific things
to note are(a) Job proficiency.
( b) Appearance.
( c) Practice of military courtesy.
(d) Personal hygiene.
(e) Care of equipment.
(f) Condition of mess and quarters.
(g) Adequacy and suitability of rations.
(h) Care of casualties.
( i) Response to orders and directives.
(j) Use of recreational facilities.
(k) Attention during training.
(l) Number of rumors.
( m) Number of quarrels.
(2) Administrative reports concerning the
status of personnel, when properly evaluated, aid . in measuring morale. Particularly valuable are reports which
deal with(a) Men absent without leave and deserters.
( b) Malingerers.
(c) Arrests, military and civilian.
(d) Requests for transfer.
(e) Sickcallrate.
56

AGO 2695C

(f) Stragglers.

'
(g) Self-inflicted wounds.
(h) Damage to or loss
through carelessness;

of equipment

46. Discipline

a. General. Discipline is the individual or group
attitude that insures prompt obedience to orders
and initiation of appropriate action in the absence
of orders. The exacting discipline demanded in a
military organization is of necessity much greater
than the type of discipline demanded in school,
church, or home. One of the major purposes.· of
discipline' is to instill in a command a helpful,
potent spirit that will foster group identity and
cohesion and motivate the individual to withstand
the shock of battle. It results from effective training and intelligent leadership. Before a man can
act resourcefully in the absence of orders he must
have an understanding of what is to be done and
the role he plays. This requires training. Before
he can respond willingly and intelligently to
orders, he needs the same understanding and
ability, plus confidence in his superiors. This
requires leadership.

Il
l

b. Evaluation· of Discipline. Things to watch
for are(1) Attention to details.
(2) Harmonious relations between units and
individuals.
(3) Attention to.duty.
( 4) Promptness in reporting for duty.
AGO 2695C

57

( 5) Respect for superiors.
( 6) Proper conduct of individuals at all
times.
(7) Attention to cleanliness, dress, and
saluting.
(8) Attendance at sick call only when medically necessary.
(9) Promptness in responding to commands,
directives, and other orders.
47. Esprit De Corps

a. General. Esprit de corps is the loyalty to,
pride in, and enthusiasm for a unit shown by its
members. It implies devotion to the unit, acceptance of responsibility by individuals, and jealous
regard for the honor of the unit. Esprit de corps
is a spirit above and beyond the aggregate personalities of the individuals in a unit. It amounts
to the unit's personality. It expresses the unit's
will to fight and win.
b. Evaluation of Esprit De Corps. Esprit de
corps depends on the satisfaction the members get
out of belonging to a unit, or their confidence in
their leaders and on their attitude toward other
members of the unit. Evidences of esprit are( 1) Expressions from the men showing enthusiasm and pride in their unit.
(2) A good reputation among other units.
(3) A strong competitive spirit
( 4) Willing participation by the members in
unit activities .
.58

AGO .2695C

(5) Pride.in the.traditions and history of the·
unit.
( 6) Readiness on the part of the men to help
one another.
(7) The belief that theirs is the best unit in
the Army.
48. Proficiency

a. General. Proficiency is the technical;· tactical,
and physical ability of the individual and the unit
to perform their job br mission. Unit proficiency
is the sum of the skills of all the individuals in the
unit welded together by the leader into a smooth
running team.

b. Evaluation of Proficiency. Proficiency results
largely .from training; therefore,· supervision of
training should occupy the major portion of your
time as a· commander. This is the one sure method
you have of judging the proficiency of individuals
and of the unit. You will get proficiency when you
demand the highest possible standard. Some of
the marks of proficiency you should watch for
are(1) Personalappearance and physical condition of the men.
' ·
(2) Appearance and condition of weapons and
equipment.
(3) Willing acceptance and discharge of responsibility by subordinates.
(4). Businesslike operation of the unit.
(5) Troop leading ability of junior leaders.
AGO 2695C

59

(6) Promptness and accuracy in passing
down orders and instructions.
(7) Promptness and accuracy in reporting
and disseminating information.
49. Development of the Indications of leadership

a. The development of the indications is a continuous concern. The operation and training of
your unit must be carried out with the view in mind
of developing the leadership indications. If you
understand the forces that produce desired results,
you will be better able to direct your efforts along
productive lines.
b. Certain known actions have proved to develop
a specific indication. An action designed to improve one of the indications of leadership may also
develop the others. Following are the indications
and some specific steps that will develop each:
(1) Morale.
(a) Teach belief in the cause and mission~
(b) Instill confidence in self, training,
equipment and leaders.
( c) Insure job satisfaction by carefully considering job assignments.
(d) Keep your men cognizant of your concern and the Army's concern for their
welfare.
(2) Discipline.
(a) Demonstrate discipline by your own
conduct and example.
( b) Set high standards of performance and
insist they be met.
60

AGO 2695C

(c) Institute an impartial system for punishment and an equitable distribution
of privileges..
(d) Remember, discipline is a result of
mutuaf ·confidence ga-i·ned through
training. ·
(3) Es']Jrit de corp_s.
.
(a) Start the men off right in the reception
program by an orientation of. the unit's
history, traditions, and present role.
(b) Develop the feeling that the imit must
·excel.
( c) Recognize achievements of the ·. unit
and its members and see that" they are
properly publicized.
(d) Make use of ceremonies~· symbols, and
slogans.
(e) Use competition to ·d~velop teamwork.
(/) Make use of. decorations and a wards.
(.0. Profi,cU'ltC'IJ ~ .
(a) Train your· Dien in their individual
duties.
(b) EmphasiZe teamwork through the
chain ··of coinmartd.
(c) Establish a sound physical-conditioning .
program.

>'.•,

I
l
t

·.,:

CHAPTER 6
Ll;:ADERSHIP PROBLEM AREAS AND THE
PROBLEM SOLYING PROCESS

Section I. PROBLEM SOLVING PROCESS

50. General

a. Leadership requires the solving of a variety
of problems. These problems cannot be ignored,
and must be handled promptly in the most effective
manner possible. If you fail to solve these problems,
they may adversely affect the efficiency of your unit.
b. Some of the more common problem areas you
will.encounter are those of selection and development of junior leaders, the senior-subordinate relationship, reception and integration, assumption
of command, and counseling.
51. Leadership Problem Solving Process

a. You cannot always rely upon your experiences
and observations as guides for determining means
of arriving at sound decisions. Problems are often
much more complex than they appear to the casual
observer and experiences are many times misleading. Therefore, it becomes necessary that you develop a thinking process which can be used to solve
problems in an orderly and analytical manner.
b. The leadership problem solving process is a
sound and analytical approach that helps you to
62

AGO 26960

..

de.cide on ''actions and orders''. for the solution of
· leadership problems. There are three general steps
in this process~recognize the problem, make an
estimate ofthe situation; and take actfon.
( l) Recognize the problem. A problem exists
tn a unit when an incident occurs or conditions exist which adversely affeet one
or more of the leadership indications.
However, to think of a problem as being
solely one. of discipline, morale, :espl.rit de
corps,:or proficiency, will not satisfy the .
first step in the problem solving process
as there:are many different incidents and
conditions· in: a unit which influence each
··of these indications. ''Unless you under~
stand what iriCidents or conditiOns present
a problem, you will allow many of. these
to persist which . will ·.counteract your
~:ffort to develop and maintain an effective .·
unit.
(2) Make an estimate of the situation. It is
necessary to tak~ positive and itiunediate
action when dealing with problems that
arise within your command. However, be7
fore taking correctiv~ a~ti0n yoµ. .should
real.ize that a basic underlying cause ·
exists~ .If the _probl~l'Il i~ to be. entirely·.
eliminated, or. at least minimized, you
must take additional. ~teps to determine
the cause. A rash ·leader. who jumps to
ci.mclu~ions and does ~ot attempt t<> exercise insight will often create a· more seriAGO 2696C

. 63

ous problem than the one he is attempting
to ·Co.rrect. Carefully analyze facts. Determine possible solutions and compare
their strong and weak points. Select the
best. solution available.
(3) Take action. After making ·a complete
estimate of the situation in order to select
the best possible solution, select "a~tions
or orders" to .·complete solving of the
problem. The selected "action or order"
will be guided ·by the same considerations
as listed in paragraph 4/. Having decided
on what to-do, it remains for you to put
your plan into effect and check results.
Remember, ·one of the most outstanding
factors which distinguishes a successful
commander from a mediocre one is the
ability to, select sound. "actions and orders." Solve problems daily-do not let
them accumulat~they multiply with inaction.
·
Section II. PROBLEM AREAS .

52. Assumption of Command

a. Many conditions exist in military leadership
that require rotation and replacement of leaders.
This poses a problem for the· leader who must assume command of a unit on short notice.
b. In assuming command of a unit, plan every
move with the thought that the first impression
you make will be a lasting one. Essential elements
of planning an assumption of command follow:
64

AGO 2695C

(1) Observe your unit for a period of time before making any major changes~ This insures that your actions and orders will
be based on facts.
(2) Evaluate:the indications of leader.ship in
the unit.. The majority of leadership
problems originate in· the areas covered
by the indications. Judicious application
of the problem solving process ..will expedite the solving of leadership problems.
Evaluate youz: junior leaders to determine
their strengths and weaknesses. Utilize
all possible means to further the development of your .subordinates. Evaluate the
effectiveness of each subordinate element .
under your command with a view toward
raising its, level of proficiency;
(3) Orient your unit on your policies and de.sired standards. . Set and maintain the
highest standard attainable. The unit
must be motivated· to reach the ultimate
goal of an effective unit.
(4) Set the example for your u'nit and junior
leaders.

•

53. Selection of Junior Leaders

a. No foolproof method has been devised ·to determine whether a man will be a leader. Successful
leaders with the responsibility for selecting leaders
have used ·the following means to obtain information:
(1) Interview. A personal interview is a valuable device fo use to ob.serve· potential
AGO 2695C
539933 0 -60 - s..

65

leadership characteristics, and will often
provide useful information not available
from other sources. Whenever possible,
plan the interview. Look for the following qualities during the interview:
(a) Poise.
( b) Ability to express ideas.
(c) Evidence of sincerity and honesty.
(d) Frankness.
(e) Pleasing personality.
(/) Grooming.
(2) Observation. This is a reliable method of
gaining information when conducted over
a period ot time. /Observe for the following:
(a) Possession of a positive attitude and
approach toward all tasks.
( b) A desire to seek and accept responsibility.
( c) The ability to see a problem in its
proper perspective. This ability is
simply the capacity to divorce personal
emotions from facts.
( d) Loyalty to his men as well as to his
superiors.
( e) The ability to perform consistently in
a superior manner under adverse conditions.
(/) The respect and admiration the individual merits among the members of the
unit.
(3) Recommendations. Seek recommendations
66

AGO 2695C

·;J.-

regarding the abili tie!'!. of ·the. potential
leader. The previous jobs;.beld, amount
of responsibility, a:r:id :reli;i.tionship to
the recommending officer are among
the things that should be considered in
evaluating these recommendations .
. (4) High standards. This is an excellent :indication of competence. ~eatness, correct
posture, proper behavior, and punctuality
are some of the qualities to look for in
an individual's standards.
(5) Administrative 1·ecords. When records
are available; use them to obtain general
background i~formation.

..

b. Commanders have. obtained good results in
the past using the following crheria in selecting
men for comniandpositions: ·
.
.
(l) .Demonstrated ability to do the job (first
· consideration). .
·
(2) Personality as noted by personal contact
with the men.
( 3) Length of service~
(4) Experience in the job or similar jobs.
(5) Seniority:
.
54. Development of Junior Leaders . ·

a. Consider not only the leadership that you exert, but also that of your junior leaders. The
quality of your leadership is reflected in the junior
leader's ability... Take every opportunity to· teach
. your junior leaders. the fondamentals.
. . of leadership
and their application in. order that. they may beAGO 2695C

67

come more effective. A sense of responsibility in
junior leaders is best developed by the assignment
of duties, setting the standards of accomplishment,
setting a personal example, operating the unit
through the chain of command, wise counseling,
and supervision. The commander must be conscious of the dangers inherent in the usurpation of
the junior's prerogatives. Junior leaders must be
given complete authority appropriate to their
positions.
b. The development of leadership in junior
leaders must be a constant concern. A good junior
leader not only possesses a sense of responsibility
but also possesses leadership ability. This ability
can be developed through study, practice and experience in command. This means that junior
leaders must be trained. This training is accomplished through.,..( 1) Periodic rotation of duty assignments
(professional equcation).
(2) Leadership instruction.
(3) Special duty assignments.
( 4) Training inspections and field exercises.
(5) Attendance at unit and Army service
schools.
( 6) Proper study and reading.
c. In dealing with junior leaders, maintain as
direct and personal a relationship with them as
the situation permits. Let them know what you
expect of them, how they are getting along; and
ways to improve. Give them credit when due, and
be carefulto avoid favoritism.
68

AGO 2695C

d. With rapid turnover of leader&.in every unit,
replacement of these , individuals is a pressing
problem. A system of planning for and preparing
th~se replacements ip advance is essential. ~here
is. a necessity for training replacements for each
key position so· that two substitutes ,are always
available. This planning for leaders, in depth of·
three, becomes even more important in coI11bat
where turnover is greater.
e. The leadership ability .of junior leaders will
have to be of ~ higher quality in the future than
it has been in the past. The concept of atomic warfare will require that small unit leaders rely more
and more on their abilities and resources. Units
will be required to operate with little feeling of
mutual security and with limited supplies. Newer
weapons, greater distances between units, new
tactics, and more advanced means of co:mmunication will produce leadership problems which have
no parallel in military• history. Success or failure
will depend upon.how effective commanders .are in
solving these new problems; Junior leaders must
be. trained to cope with these new challenges, one
of the most pressing of which will be the conservation of fighting strength.

•·

55. Senior-Subordinate Relation~hip

a. The relationship that exists between· the offi-.
cer and noncommissioned officer must be one of
· respect and confidence. This same relationship
must be mainfained between officers of different
rank. As a .junior officer, you must be respectful
AGO 2695C

69

and obedient to your superiors before you can expect your men to respect you.
b. The proper senior-junior relationship is one
in which there is close mutual confidence and trust
without overfamiliarity. Overfamiliarity breeds
contempt and has a tendency to tear down the respect of the· men. Base your actions on the way
each man performs his job, never on any prejudice
you may hold.
c. Your personal influence is a great asset in
building harmonious relationships among the leaders of your unit.
d. Proper senior~subordinate relationship means
you must know your men and look out for their
welfare. Any leader who does not know his men
does not know the effectiveness of his unit.
56. Counseling

a. Counseling is talking over a -problem with
someone. It involves the clearing up of a problem
or pointing the way to a solution by discussion or
by advice. The most effective counseling is that
which encourages a person to think out his own
solution. You accomplish this by exhibiting an interest in the problem and by encouraging the man
to talk freely. Then, by injecting pertinent ideas
and comments, you guide the man's thinking toward a logical solution to his problem.
b, The purpose of counseling is to help develop
the ability of each individual to take care of himself-to stand on his own feet without being dependent on others. The end result of counseling
70

AGO 2695C

.is clear-to teach the individual to ,adopt, as his
own, habits of mind and emotion that will enable
him to solve his own problems as they arise, not
to encourage him to continue relying upon external
help.
c. The range of personalproblems arising within a unit is vast and varied. Problems which may
require counseling are .those involving grievances
pertaining to rank and promotion, job assignment,
discrimination by others, financial problems, family
troubles; morale problems, and many otfier factors
involving the individual's well-being. It is neces-'
sary that you help the individual solve his problems
so that his .mind will be free from worry and he
can concentrate on the job at hand. Proper counseling will assist the man in solving his problems.
d. An understanding of human behavior will
help you to find a plausible solution .to your men's
problems. Always attempt to understand why a
man thinks and acts the way he does.
e. When initiating a counseling program, the
following should be included:
(1) All leaders within a unit should be oriented on the functioning, the need for,
and the benefits derived from a counseling program.
(2) Leaders should make themselves available
at·· any time to give guidance and assistance .
. (3) The soldier should be oriented to take his
problems to his immediate leader, and not
to viqlate the chain of c9mmand.
AGO 2696C

71

f. Following are certain fundamental rules conducive to effective counseling:
(1) Use common understandable words and
phrases in your discussions.
(2) Never talk down to your men.
( 3) Retain any information secured during
counseling in strict confidence.
(4) Make full use of assistance available from
the staffs, services, and higher headquarters. You should know where to get the
·information, the channels, and if possible,
know by name the people to whom referrals are made. When you put the soldier
in direct contact with the agency or service, you strengthen the soldier's confidence in your ability. Some of these
agencies or services are-Chaplain, Army
Medical Service, The American Red
Cross, Legal Assistance Officer, The
Army Emergency Relief Society; Inspector General, .Personnel Officer, Information Officer, Education Officer, and. Fi. nance Officer.
57. Reception and Integration

a. The new soldier, finding himself almost entirely separated from his friends and family, must
develop a feeling of being part of a group by forming new friendships. In military life he finds that
he has. much less freedom of choice than in private
life, and he has little or no privacy. He feels unimportant. You can make his adjustment less diffi72

AGO 2696C

I

~

I

cult by explaining the reasons for regimentation
during his first few days of service. Tell him about
the process of training which makes it impossible
for him to live, work, and play as he did in private
life. Explain that the Army cannot provide the
conveniences of civilian homes and communities.
b. On the other hand, the new soldier may find
in the military life a personal freedom greater than
he was allowed in his hometown. The restrictions
formerly imposed by his parents, teachers, church,
and community are remote to him. This sudden
release may lead to a great deal of thoughtless and
unbridled behavior. Personal counsel and necessary restrictions sometimes help control this problem.
c. It is particularly important that you take
special care in the adjustment of the new men,
especially in the first few months of service. During this period, the seeds of future personality
disorders are usually sown; These disorders will
not develop if preventive measures are used.
d. New men must be classified and assigned to
units and integrated in such a way that the requirements of the various component units of the
organization are met first and that each individual
is assigned to a position where he can be expected
to perform best. Often problems of morale develop
after you have carefully considered the needs of
the unit, the individual's capabilities, and his desires. You can eliminate many such problems by(1) Utilizing noncommissioned officers' ex-

t'

AGO 2695C

73

perience and knowledge of the men in
making detailed assignments within the
unit.
(2) Emphasizing by personal example of
word and deed the importance of the individual's job to the overall mission. The
importance a man attaches to his job is
often directly proportional to the leader's
attention to and interest in that job.
(3) Stressing during initial orientation and
throughout training the relationship of
the individual to the success of the team
as a whole.
e. A good program of reception, indicating
thoughtful concern for the men's comfort and welfare, does much to speed their initial adjustment
and creates in them a favorable attitude toward
their leaders and the Army in general. In order
to accomplish this you must(1) Keep the program moving. Avoid useless
delays and long periods of waiting during
processing.
(2) Keep. the men informed. Prepare an in~
formation program to orient men quickly
on their assignments to units.
(3) Allow a short readjustment period during
transfer between units. After this period,
minimize transfers.
( 4) Organize a modified training program for
new arrivals pending implementation of
the scheduled training program.
74

AGO 2696C

,.

Section Ill. LEADERSHIP OF FEMALE GROUPS
58. Fundamentals

a. The fundamentals of leadership as they pertain to Women's Army Corps personnel (b below),
are applicable to all women leaders within the
Army; i. e., nurses, dietitians, etc.
b. The 11 principles of leadership are as applicable to officers and noncommissioned officers of
the Women's Army Corps (WAC) as to male
leaders. WAC officers and noncommissioned officers enhance their value to the Army by developing the same leadership traits and techniques as
those prescribed for male leaders. Women, perhaps
even more than men, require evidence of personal
interest and recognition from their leaders. Genuine concern for others is essential to the leadership
of women. The woman leader must control her
emotions, guard against professional jealousy and
selfish ambition, and strive to conduct her life in
a manner to be emulated by her associates. The
WAC leader is required to exemplify the highest
moral standards. Such leadership traits as justice,
integrity, unselfishness, sincerity, decisiveness,
tact, and courage are essential to women leaders.
(1) Delegation of authority and supervision
is equally important among women leaders. They should insure that personnel
are assigned duty positions commensurate
with demonstrated or potential ability
and should help subordinates to recognize their specific contributions to the
accomplishment of the Army mission.
AGO 2695C

75

(2) The successful woman leader is obliged
to set an example of loyalty to the Army,
to the command and its policies, and to
other members of her unit. The development of leadership traits will enhance the
ability of women leaders to inspire subordinates through persuasive methods.
(3) The special leadership techniques which
· apply principally to combat are presented
to W ACs theoretically to provide them
with knowledge of what is desired of the
leaders of combat troops. Since combat
training or participation is barred to
members of the W ACs, disaster training
is utilized to develop leadership techniques similar to those emphasized in
combat training.
59. Special Considerations

Civil service and other civilian employees, Red
Cross workers, Special Services hostesses, librarians, and USO entertainers normally accompany
the Armed Forces. Their presence with the Army
poses certain problems of leadership for both male
and female Army personnel who must be prepared
to understand the special problems and requirements of the women.

76

AGO 2695C

CHAPTER 7
LEADERSHIP ASPECTS OF ORGANIZAT:ON

60. Organization and Control

.'

a. General.
(1) Leaders must understand the. principles
of a sound organizatioti in order to obtain
the best results. "There are no poor units,
only poor commanders," is the saying
attributed to Napoleori:_,.and it is still
worthy of quotation.
(2) OrganiZing is the process of creating and
maintaining conditions necessary for the
effective execution of plans. It involves
defining and· arranging systematically
each task in respect to the final accomplishment of the mission. · Sound functional organization provides a structure
which enables individuals to work together efficiently for the attainment of
a common purpose •. The extreme test of
coordination and organization is evidenced when a unit carries on .even when
it is literally shot to pieces.
b. Processingfor Organizing.
( 1) The purpose for organizing may be discussed under three headings : determining the job, setting up the' structure, and
AGO 2695C

77

allocating the resources. These functions
are performed as .a result of thorough
planning.
(2) The job to be accomplished may have to
be decentralized by listing each phase of
each operation. Each single phase is then
taken and a similar process repeated. The
process is continued until there. is a detailed listing .of the operations which
must be accomplished to get the·job·done.
The grouping of tasks for a specific assignment should be related so that they
may readily be accomplished. All assignments should be interrelated to assure an
integrated effort. There should be no
duplication· of effort, and responsibilities
should be clearly defined.
· (3) Setting up the. structure results in an organization chart and a TOE. The organization chart shows where authority lies,
command channels, and the relationship
of compon~nts. · The TOE puts similar
information into tabular form and indicates the placement of men and equipment allocated to a unit.
( 4) A commander will work with a unit organized under TOE, as directed by competent authority. His prerogative may
be exercised in development of the functional organization of his command. He
may. organize his staff and unit commanders according to his own visualiza78

AGO 2696C

tion of conditions required to enhance the
effectiveness of his unit. Prompt determination should be made of the internal
orgariization required for the conduct of
tactical operations; and that organization should be placed in effect for all
phases of the life of ~he unit.
61. Span of Control

'I
.

a. The span of control must be fully appreciated
by any person who is to become a successful leader;.
By definition, span of control is the number of
immediate subordinates one commander can effectively control, supervise, or direct. Violation of
the span of control leads only to cumbersome and
inefficient organization. An individual's ability to
control the activities of others is limited by many
psychological and physical factors.
b. From the· psychological viewpoint, one must
recognize that a person can only pay :;Lttention to
a limited number of things at one time. Each new
task assigned distracts a person from .the work
already assigned, andtoo many projects cause one
to los~ sight of the real objective. In addition, each
individual has many previously acquired attitudes
which influence his approach to a problem. These
attitudes may be so strong as to ·predetermine his
idea of what is correct about a certain problmi. He
may close his mind to any attempt to change this
point of view. This is a mind~set. A mind-set can
result in many misinterpretations and misunderstandings. One may not hear what is said or may
int.erpret what has been said as supporting his
AGO 26950

79

view. A strict disciplinarian taking a course of
instruction in the use of reward and punishment in
military leadership may actually be stimulated by
instruction in the proper and improper use of both
reward and punishment, but he will perceive only
that punishment is good and reward is bad. In the
case of a subordinate who is greatly admired, this
mind-set concerning him may cause the commander
to be unable to see that he is actually inefficient or
is the cause of friction in the organization. The
span of attention, thus, is further restricted by the
mind-set.
c. The physical factors which influence effective
control include time, distance, and the arithmetical
progression of human relationships involved. Most
people easily recognize that there is a definite limit
as to how much work an individual can accomplish
during a given period of time. It is also readily
understood that the greater the distance separating
the locations of persons or activities, the more
difficult becomes the task of controlling them. Also,
for each individual brought directly under the control of a commander, the number of human relationships he .must be concerned with increases
manyfold. In the case of one person controlling
two individuals he will be concerned with three
relationships. This is his personal relationship
with each individual and their relationship with
each. other. If, however, another individual is
added, he will be. concerned with six relationships.
This factor-the mathematical complex of human
relationships-must not be overlooked.
80

AGO 26950

l

1

I

l

d. A commander should supervise at least three
people ; otherwise, he should be doing part of the
work himself. This figure should be considered
minimum due to econ()my and efficiency. It is much
more difficult to determine the maximum .number
of people one can supervise adequately. This number will depend on the following:
(1) The. experience and training of the
leader (commander) .
(2) The experience and .training of the men
being supervised.
(3). The amount of communication between
the leader and his men.
( 4) The degree to which the jobs performed
by the men are similar.
(5) The operating distance (radius of action)
between the leader and his men.
.
(6) The time available for the organization to
translate decisions into actio.ns.
(7) The personality of the leader. and the men
being led.
62. Chain of Command
~.

a. The chain of command is a successi.on of commanders from a superior to a junior through w}lich
command is exercised. This is. aiso known as the
comm!l.nd channeE The leader must· understand
this chain if he is to have an effective unit.
b. Effective operation of the chain necessitates
that(1) Sufficient authority be delegated to indiAGO 2695C
539933 0 -60 -6

81

viduals responsible for the accomplishment of tasks.
(2) Definite responsibilities be assigned for
each task to be accomplished.
(3) Men know for whom they are working
and to whom they are responsible.
( 4) Men be required to initiate all requests
through their immediate commander or
his staff.
(5) Each man be aware of his place in the
chain of command.
( 6) Any man not have more than one superior
giving.him orders.
63. The Commander-Staff Officer Relationship

a:· The staff officer occupies a position of detailed
planning and exacting demands in the service he
performs for his commander. He must subordinate
his own personal aspirations to the desires and
decisions of the commander.
b. The primary function of the staff is to assist
the commander in performing his duties. The responsibilities of command remain with the commander. and cannot be delegated to any members
of his staff. Staff officers, therefore, only issue
orders of and for the commander.
c. A good staff officer keeps himself informed by
frequent visits to commanders of subordinate
units. He interprets and explains policy, orders,
and directives. He observes the execution of the
commander's desires and advises him concerning
the. extent to which they are being executed.
82

AGO 2696C

...

..

d. Tact is a desirable characteristic wh.en dealing with higher headquarters, troops, and junior
commanders. It. is also needed within the staff
where ·cooperatioI1 ·and .coordination can be seriously hindered by petty jealousies arid minor differences in personalities •
e. The commander will logically expect ~ ~taff
officer to-:·· · . · ·
· ;' ·

(1) Work in close harmony. with other staff
members, higher a'nd parallel commands,
and with lower units. · '
(2) Correctly ~nalyze, properly ~valuate, arid
' recommend sound courses of action .on
problems arising within the command.
<3 > :Prepare .directives for lower commands
based 'on the commander's policies.
(4) Keep the commander completely informed
withouV'spying" on the unit. ··
(5) Develop i:Q lower units the feeling that
· · they c~n/rely :on the actions of the staff
officer, and welcome. their visits .
. (6). Insure that comple.te c~~rdination will be
obtained prior to taking or r¢commending .·
· . an action.
) ·.
·<

AGO 2,696C

83

CHAPTER 8
LEADERSHIP IN COMBAT

64. Willingness for Combat of the American Soldier

a. How do unfavorable attitudes developed in
the soldier during training relate to his combat
performance? Many commanders have stated:
"Suppose that many combat soldiers did h.ave unfavorable attitudes. What of it? They fought,
didn't they?" The question still remains: How well
did they fight in relation to their potential abilities?
.. .
.
b. During World War II, the rese.arch branch,
Department of the Army ·conducted a series of
studies on the willingness for combat of the American soldier. These studies support the fact that
attitudes and performances during training a.re related to performance in combat and tp_at individmils who had the least satisfactory. attitUde relating to combat while in training later tended to be
relatively poor combat soldiers. The results of
these surveys also showed that at least 24 percent
of the men said that they would rather not, or felt
they could not, kill an enemy soldier. It is vitally
important that the leader in training be sensitive
to his men's attitudes and strive to build an attitude of confidence in their combat skills.
c. Further studies indicated that a large percentage of the available firepower in units was
84

AGO 2695C

never fully developed. This failure to fire was due,
in part, to the soldier's .belief that firing his weapon
entailed increased exposure. Primarily, however,
it Was due to a paralysis caused by such fears
as befog wounded or disfigured, lack of confidence
in weapons, .in leaders, in fellow soldiers, or in
himself.
65. Factors Adversely Affecting Combat Effectiveness

a. Factors adversely affecting the combat poten'"
tial of. the command include fear, panic, discourage'-.
ment, isolation, and lack of confidence by the individual in hhnself, in his unit, or in his leaders. The
presence of fear and a tendency
panic fluctuate
with changes in condition of the troops, i.n degree
of tactical success, and physical conditions on. the
bittlefi.eld. ·Normally, it is the comman.der of the
small unit who. must sense the development o.f ·
situati<ms. interpreted by the . troops as critical and
who must take personal action to eliminate condi..:
tions conducive to fear and panic. However, it is
of the large
unit
who trains
largely
the comrrrander
.
,,
'
.
.
and indoctrinates th11 small unit commander anc1
who initiates policies that help him to. counteract
fear anc1 panic..
'
.

to

..

. b .. The disruption. of mutual support among ele'."
ments ofthe combat unifscimetimes results in the
isolation of units on the battlefield. In such situations, units should not be allowed fo feel thafthey
have been forgotten, neglected, or abandoned, .or
that they are in any way acting alone or fighting
a "sacrifice" mission; They must be assured that
AGO 2695C

85

the commander adequately appreciates their position, is confident of their ability to extricate themselves from the situation and to perform their mission creditably, and will assist them in every way
possible.
66. Fear

a. Fear, although a painful emotion that may
at times be incapacitating, is actually nature's way
of preparing the body for action. Body functioning
is stepped up; sugar and adrenalin are released
into the blood to act as fuel for the fight ahead;
there is a temporary loss of any feeling of fatigue.
Even blood clots more readily !
b. Nevertheless, it is sometimes difficult for a
tense, frightened soldier to 19ok upon fear in the
light of body chemistry, especially if his period of
fright is prolonged. He may become helpless and
demoralized, completely paralyzed or immobilized
by his fear.
c. It is here that training and discipline pay off;
Training will teach the soldier to respond from
force of habit to specific battle orders, even though
•
battle commands often cannot be given as in training. It will ~come second nature to hiin to carry
out his own job as a member of the fighting tearnto begin the action that will relieve his fear.
67. Rumors

a. Rumors are essentially anonymous communications that yield readily to distribution. Those
which seem plausible under existing conditions cir86

AGO 2695C

...

culate rapidly. Rumors destroy confidence and
create uncertainty. In combat, when soldiers may
be uncertain arid insecure, rumors may create an
illusion and ·a critical situation where, in reality,
none exists. Thus rumors create 'a condition of
high susceptiblity to emotional and irrational behavior. The hearers become excited and react in
an unreas.onable fashio11. to even weak suggestions.
Additional rumors c;m incl.te a mob action or panic.
Rumors are most effective when the individual sees
them as plausible or suitable Jo hi,s circumstances.
However, once the characteristics of mass. psychology ·destroy the ability to :reas'on, rumors no longer
require. credence to be acceptable. This was one
of the bases of the' propaganda campaigns of our
adversaries in World War ·n. The most fantastic
rumors were accepted without analysis because
people were fearful and lacked factual information
in a critical situation.'
b. A rumor that supports a suspicion or. a hatred,
verifies a fear, or expresses a hope will be repeated
and reinforced by the e~otions ofthe teJler. When
rum~rs spread rapidlyand far, means that hates,
fears, or hopes are common to the . many people
who are doing the repeating; Rumors are repeated
even by those who do not believe them because they
provide a chance to express an emotion which
would otherwise have. to be suppressed:
c. Confidence varies continually between overconfidence and shaken confidence. Rumor causes
violent fluctuations between these extremes. For
this reason, rumors must be controlled. Effective

it

I

l

I
l

AGO 2695C

87

rumor control requires an attentive ear to 1etect
and identify rumors and specific· action tq, discredit
and eliminate them at the source. Rumors originated by the enemy necessitate counterintelligence
measures to determine their source. Specific control measures applicable to all rumors include( 1) Information programs.
(2) Disseminating information on plans and
operations as complete as security. requirements permit. Give the froops as
many facts as possible.
(3) Finding out and attempting to eliminate
the basic conditions creating uncertainty
and frustrations before they accumulate.
(4) Keeping informed regarding current
rumors in the unit. A long range program of instilling faith in the informa- ·
tion passed out by the chain of command
is better than a point-for-point rebuttal
of rumors passed along the "grapevine."
Soldiers want information! If factual information· is not expeditiously supplied
by the chain of command, · then the
"rumor campaigns" take over. The obvious disadvantage of replying ·directly to
rumors is that the rumors niay be reinforced and given creditability.
(5) By example and instruction, emphasizing
democratic principles to eliminate hatred,
prejudice, and animosity.
( 6) Developing confidence in individuals toward their leaders.
88

AGO. 2695C

'{
i

d. Keeping your men infprmed assumes a major
role on the battlefield. A soldier w'lto is uninformed
or misinformed cannot be expected to produce at
his maximum ability in combat. Men must know
what is expected of them and what means they
have at their disposal to assist them in accomplish:ing the mission. Troops who are aware beforehand
of the enemy's capabilities exert a positive influence toward successful accomplishment of the
mission.
68. Panic

a. Panic develops, when a soldier is overcome
with fear. It may be evidenced by sudden flight or
by freezing in place. Panic may develop in a group
faced with sudden catastrophe or from a few individuals fleeing from destruction in a critical situation. The critical situations responsible for the
mass emotion of fear may be real, as in the case of
bombing raids, or imaginary, such as those created
by terror, enemy propaganda, and malicious gossip.
The seeds of panic are always present in troops
as long as they believe that physical danger is
near.
b. The emotion of fear reaches panic proportions
only when individuals believe themselves incapable
of overcoming a criti~al situation. When emotional
tension is produced by a critical situation, individuals become excitable and highly susceptible to
suggestion. Nothing is more likely to collapse a
line of infantry in combat than the sight of a few
of its number .in full and unexplained flight to the
AGO 2695C

89

rear. Sudden and unexplained motion in the wrong
direction is an open invitation to disaster. As panic
spreads, a man will join a disorganized fleeing
crowd without stopping to ask why they are
running. When· discipline breaks, only a small
minority of the most hardy individuals will retain
self-control. The others cannot stand fast if the
circumstances appear to justify flight. The· obvious·
fear among the panicked troops is evidence that
there is something to be afraid of and to escape
from.
c. Any suggested or observed movement may be
interpreted as a means of escape and cause of sudden flight. This flight is not generally focused upon
a known goal other than escape, but is rapidly
canalized in a certain direction. Someone has to be
the first to break and run. Studies of local panics
during Korea revealed that a Jack of information
and the sight of running men were the .real crux of
the fear. It was found that those who had started
to run, and who in doing so had started a panic,
rationalized an excuse· for their action.
d. The emotion of fear is reinforced by escape
action to such a degree that reason is greatly re'duced. A soldier in panic runs without much
rational thought. His fear is increased by the
fears of his fleeing companions, and his field of
attention is narrowed. ·He is forgetful of honor and
discipline.
e. Troops in combat are continually in the
presence of a situation threatening death or bodily
harm. During such times of stress, they are subject to all of the anxieties and fears conducive to
90

AGO 26950

panic. Experienced troops who are well trained,
organized, disciplined, and led seldom give way to
panic because they are confident of their .ability to
master any situation regardle!"s of its critical
nature. This power to resist fear and panic fluctuates according to psychological and physiological
conditions of the troops, the degree of tactical
success, and the physical conditions of the battlefield. You must constantly measure and strengthen
the confidence of your command. You must realize
that even experienced and well-traiJ?.ed troops have
panicked in situations which appeared beyond their
control as a result of rumor or unfavorable circumstances. You must sense the development of
situations interpreted by the troops as critical and
ta:ke action to eliminate conditions conducive to
panic.
f. You· sho.uld recognize and compensate or
minimize the following conditions that lead to un'
.
. certainty and panic: .
( 1) Physical conditions-scarcity of ar.ms and
·ammunition, insufficient supporting weapons, fog, darkness, woods, baptism of fire,
and introduction of new enemy weapons.
(2) Physiolqgical conditions-.-hunger, thirst,
fatigue, and exhaus~ion.
( 3) Psychological conditions-danger (real
or imaginary), anxiety, insecurity, ignorance of the military situation, tension, and
expectant ·waiting.
(4) Morale conditions-homesickness, lack of
mail, boredom, rumor,. defeatist attitude;
·.

AGO 2695C.

. ,

.

- ,-1'

.

. ,

91

loss of confidence in leaders, and lack of
belief in the cause.
(5) Tactical conditions-destruction ot or~
ganization, heavy losses, reverses, conflicting orders, and poor communications~
Panic is rarely caused by the strength 0f
enemy action. There is danger of panic in
a withdrawal. For this reason, carefully
control withdrawals at all times. During
a rearward movement, keep ·troops fully
informed, within the limits of security,
as to why it is being done and how and
where the new line of resistance will be
established.
(6) :Leadership conditions-absence. of leaders, loss of good leaders, ·and lack of confidence in the ability of leaders.
g. The ultimate defense against panic lies in
good leadership, not only when panic ·starts but
also in the months of training during which the
troops are becoming seasoned.

h. You must take immediate and decisive action
at .the first sign of panic. Unity of action is often
restored by the prompt action of the leader or a few
volunteers who stand squarely in the path offlight,
command the men to turn back, and do not hesitate
to manhandle those men who come within reach or
to threaten the others with weapons. Likewise, to
the soldier who is in terror and verging on panic,
no influence can be more $teadying than to see some
other soldier near him, and especially the leader,
retaining his self-control and doing his duty.
92

AGO 2695C

.. i. A logical course of action to control panic .
includes the following:
( 1) Decisive action on the part of the commander and his junior lead~rs ..
(2) Pre..o;;ence of the commimder and his dis..:
play of a calm, confident attitude.
(3) Physical restraint on the part of the
commit:p.der and junior leaders to stop
men who are ina state of pa.nic. . .
. ( 4) Threatening men with weapon if all other
means fail.
(5) Constant aledness for the development
of conditions.which produce panic.
69. Spirit of the Offensive (Ma'.ntaining Momentum)

a. The creation. of a desire to clos~ with and
.destroy the enemy· is highly important in developing
aggressiveness in military units~ In a large meas- .
ure it is gained by expert training, by the fostering
of · confidence, and through success in combat.
Aggressive action .is essent.iaJ to secure .objectives
with minimum combat losses.. Th~ problem of
maintaining aggressiveness is· intensified during
periods of inactivity.
b. · Attainment oi objectives depends on restoring
the effectiveness of those units weakened by .enemy
action. With the rapid movement of modern warfare, it is imperative that ineffective men and
equipment be replaced quickly. This. entails effi;;.
cient movement, proper reserve and support positions, and assignment of units to missions within
93

their capabilities. To retain combat effectiveness,
you should( 1) Ins tire that the chain ·of command remains intact.
(2) Maintain momentum and utilize firepower.
(3) Instill in men an aggressive att_itude and
a desire to destroy the enemy.
( 4) Effectively use supporting fires to supplement organic firepower.
(5), Teach the unit to lean into supporting
fires when attacking.
(6) Teach men to "talk it up" and support one
another wh€n moving.
(7) Constantly train to improve proficiency in
weapon utilization and tactical maneuvers.
(8) Stress battlefield discipline and individual
responsibilities.
(9) Set the example that you desire your men
to emulate.
70. Restoration of Fighting Effectiveness

a. The fighting effectiveness of a unit decreases
after sustained action or heavy losses,. or during
defensive situations and periods of inactivity.
Units suffering heavy losses in men and equipment
require time in a reserve position to assimilate
replacements and reorganize.
b. One of the most effective means of restoring
94

AGO 2695C

•

the confidence and esprit de corps of a unit which
has failed or performed poorly in battle is to have
it carry out creditably the same or commensurate
tasks. The situation may dictate additional training or a change in command ...
c. The following actions will help to rebuild confidence and esprit de corps and insure the maintenance of combat effectiveness:
(1) Keep informed on the status of personnel,
weapons, equipment, and training so that
·replacements of personnel and equipment
are made rapidly and provisions are made
for the proper integration of new men.
(2) Personally observe units in action in order· to· better assess their capabilities.
Require additional training of. the unit if
the situation warrants.
(3) Constantly improve battle techniques and
disseminate proven methods to the units.
( 4) Carefully observe the physical, emotional,
and mental state of the troops. Disseminate data on enemy casualties, the
number. of prisoners captured, and the
amount of enemy equipment destroyed.
(5) Improve the health and welfare of the
troops .by emphasizing battle discipline to
reduce unnecessary losses from all causes.
These. may include trenchfoot, malaria,
and poor field sanitation, as well as enemy
fire.
(6) Insure that the chain of command re~

•

AGO 2695C

95

mains intact by prompt replacement of
commanders lost in action.
(7) Orient troops on the situation, pointing
out that .inactivity or defense is always
a prelude to offensive combat.
( 8) Command and reward the · display of
aggressiveness on the part of individuals
and units. Express confidence in the
unit's combat ability.
( 9) Provide for and insure the proper use of
the fire support plan.
71. Support of Isolated Units

a. The effect of enemy action sometimes results
in the isolation of units on the battlefield. In such
situations, units must be assured that the commander adequately appreciates their position and
is confident of their ability to extricate themselves
from the situation and perform their mission
creditably. To prevent a deterioration of confidence
and aggressiveness, furnish every possible support
to isolated units.
b. Some specific steps are( 1) Never let a unit think it has been
abandoned.
(2) Immediately furnish all possible fire support.
(3) Make a positive attempt to assist.
( 4) Reconstitute a chain of command if necessary.
( 5) Keep unit informed of all actions being
taken.
96

AGO 2695C

.

72. Relations With Commanders of Supporfng Units

a. When a unit of another arm or service supports his unit but is not attached, the commander
may request, but ca,nnot order, the desired assistance. However, the commander of .the supporting
unit must regard a request as an order unless it
conflicts with orders of his commander.
b. The commander of the supporting unit, like
the commander of the attached units, is an advisor
to the commander. He advises the commander on
the capabilities and limitations of the supporting
unit. He recommends ways and means by which it
may be best employed to serve the needs of the
supported unit. He. makes every effort to render
the desired support..
c. The commander must keep ·supporting unit
commanders informed of the situation and of the
support he wishes to obtain. In order that the support rendered by the supporting unit be effective,
it is necessary that adequate communication and
liaison between the unit and supporting units be
maintained by the supporting organization. The
supporting unit must be kept informed of the move-.
ments and plans of the unit and locations of. its
forward elements and command post.
d. Attached units are subject to the decisions
and orders of the commander. The attached unit
commander is an advisor to .the major l}nit commander on matters affecting the employment of the
attached unit. The commander's relationships with
the attached unit are the same as with organic
units.
AGO 2695C
539933 0 -60 -7

97

73. Leadership for Attached Units to Include Allied Units

a. One of the major leadership problems that
confront the commanders of larger commands such
as groups, divisions, corps, and armies, is the
proper handling of attached units. In corps especially there is a frequent turnover of divisions and
separate units during the course of a campaign.
The corps commander has the difficult problem of
integrating newly attached units into the corps
effort and of giving them a sense of belonging to
the team. This calls for certain leadership techniques of a special nature in addition to the more
general techniques previously discussed.
b. With the many alliances that the United
States has made with the nations of the world,
senior commanders can expect to. have allied units
attached on many occasions. To integrate newly
attached units into his command, the commander
should(1) Establish communication with a newly
attached unit at the earliest practicable
time.
(2) Insure that liaison is established with a
unit as soon as he learns it is to be
attached.
(3) Deliver promptly a brief of all current
standing operating procedures and administrative policies to the commander
and staff of a newly attached unit.
( 4) Make all necessary administrative arrangements for the efficient reception of
a unit newly attached to his command.
98

AGO 2695C

f,

I

.

(5) Insure that administrative responsibility
for attached units is clearly defined and
promptly accepted.
( 6) · Require only necessary reporting to his
headquarters by attached units.
(7) Require his staff to observe the chain of
command in dealing withattached units.
(8) Visit attached units, even though they
may be further attached to subordinate
units.
(9) Require his staff to visit newly attached
units to ascertain what assistance his
command can render.
(10) Be familiar with the history of every unit
attached to his command.
(11) Insist that subordinate commanders include attached units in recommendations
for decorations and awards.
(12) Encourage commanders of attached units
to make their problems or suggestions
known to him. ·
(13) Check plans of subordinate commanders
to see that attached units are not discriminated against in missions assigned.
(14) See that attached units receive their
fair share of all privileges and welfare
activities. Make these units feel that they
are an integral part of his team.
(15) Write a letter of appreciation to a departing unit .whenever its servicemerits such
action.
AGO 2695C

99

(16) In the case of allied units, every effort
must be made to obtain interpreters and
to assist the attached commander with
any problems peculiar to the customs of
his army.
(17) By example, lessen the difficulties of the
language barrier with allied units by attempting to learn words, phrases, idioms,
and conversational sentences of their
language.

100

AGO 2695C

. APPENDIX I
REFERENCES

AR 320-50

I

il .•
I

j
"
K

Authorized Abbreviations and
Brevity Codes.
Dictionary of United States
SR 320-5-1
Army Terms.
Military Training,
FM 21-5
Techniques of Military InFM 21-6
struction.
,Soldier's .Guide.
FM 21-13
Military Symbols.
FM 21-30
Psychological Warfare OperaFM 33-5
tions.
The GI Manual.
FM 101-1
Staff Officer's Field Manual;
FM 101-5
Staff Organization and Procedure.
Index cif Army Motion PicDA Pam 108-1
tures, Film Strips, Slides,
and Phono-Recordings.
DA Pam 310-series Military Publications Indexes.
DA Pam 600-2
The Armed Forces Officer.

AGO 26~5C

101

APPENDIX II
COMBAT EXAMPLES OF SMALL UNIT LEADERSHIP

COMBAT EXAMPLE N0.1: While the Eighth
Army was in a static. posjtfon in Korea, an officer
took over a company that was low in combat effectiveness. The battalion commander warned the
officer of this arid told him that the battalion would
go into a limited attack in two weeks.
The new company commander decided to observe
his men for four days and try to get to know his
platoon leaders ·and NCO's ··before making any
radical changes in the company routine. However,
just to let the company know that it could expect
changes in policy~ he corrected at once a few minor
deficiencies as they came to his attention.
After four days he called his platoon leaders to
an orientation meeting. He 'told them that he had
been studying the company situation for the past
few days and had found nothing basically wrong,
but that he had found several things that had to
be done to get the men on their toes again.
For their health and comfort, he told the platoon.
leaders to have their men construct squad shelters
and dig squad latrines; he added that he wanted the
platoon leaders to check with the squad leaders
every day to see .that the men were massaging
their feet and changing socks frequently enough to
ward off trenchfoot.
102

AGO 2696C

!

As a matter of self-discipline, he wanted the
men to sha.ve daily and wear their helmets ; and he
told his platoon leaders to check every man on his
ability to fire well and clean his weapon adequately.
He further directed that they spend half an hour
each day on bayonet training;
To improve patrolling, he gave his talks cm the
subject with open forum discussion. He personally
took out a platoon patrol to demonstrate correct
patrol procedure.
When his company went into the attack it secured its objective in a minimum of time and with
fewer casualties than any other company in the
battalion, After the attack, the men of the company gave their commander full credit for transforming them into an efficient combat unit. Officers
and men said, "We couldn't.let our CO down."
ANALYSIS. It is doubtful whether the work of
this company commander could have been better
performed by anyone. He sized up the situation,
worked through and with his subordinates, and
issued only those orders that were needed to improve the training and welfare of his men. Several
leadership principles stand out as the basis for this
commander's work, the most prominent beihgset the example; know your men and look of.tt for
their welfare; and insure that the task is understood, supervised, and accomplished.
COMBAT EXAMPLE NO. 2: After - the
Remagen bridgehead was secured and during the
breakout that followed; the commander of one of
the leading companies was assigned the mission of
AGO 2695C

I

103

attacking a fortified hill to his front. In his orders
for that operation, the battalion commander specified the direction of attack for the company.
The company commander made his reconnaissance. And during this reconnaissance he discovered that the direction of attack. as laid down by
his orders had vital disadvantages. The company
commander was not a man who disobeyed ord~rs,
but he felt that in view of the information he had
obtained, he should recommend that his battalion
commander authorize a change in plans.
On the strength of his reconnaissance, the company commander recommended to the battalion
commander a different avenue of approach for the
attack. At first the battalion commander was
reluctant to accept a change in his plans. But after
examining all the information that the company
commander had discovered during his reconnaissance and after listening to his reasons for
selecting a different direction, he consented.
The company launched its attack using the new
direction of attack recommended by the company
commander. ·It secured its objectives, suffering
only a few casualties. :Moreover, the company
captured 75 prisoners and destroyed 2 tanks.
After thi:;; action was completed, a reconnaissance disclosed some startling facts. Had the company attacked by the original plans, it would have
hit, head on, the enemy's final protective lines as
well as hi:;; defen:;;°ive wire; it would have been expo:;;ed to direct fire from enemy tanks; it would
have had a dh;tressing number, of casualties; and
it might not have secured its objective.
104

AGO 2695C

ANALYSIS. .The importance of personal reconnaissance as well ~s .the use· of skillful maneuver is
clearly seen. By stating and adhering to his own
convictions, the company commander exercised the
leadership trait of moral courage. He also displayed the trait of kn.owledge; with this trait he
was able to evaluate his discoveries .made during
his reconnaissance and was able to plan an effective maneuver for the attack.
COMBAT EXAMPLE NO. 3: The :first night
after the Chinese intervened in the'Korean hostiJi.;.
ties was a tough one. Company E was engaged in
a heavy fire fight as part of a task force ordered to
delay the enemy. The company repulsed two
battalion-size assaults, inflicting heayY casualties
on the enemy. But due to the frozen ground and
the time factor, Company E had not been able to
dig in and its own casualties were excessively high.
Also, communication with the company CP was
knocked out and ammunition for the mortars and
recoilless rifles. was desperately short.
The enemy withdrew at 0400 to regroup. During
the lull; the weapons platoon leader drew the last
of the 60-mm and 57-mm ammunition from the
task force ammunition distributing point.
In the first few minutes of the next assault, the
weapons platoon fired its last round of ammunition.
The platoon sergeant then turned to his platoon
leader in hopeless frustration and asked, "What do
we do now; Lieutenant?"
"We're going to disassemb.le the breechblocks
from the 57'.s and. hide them," the lieutenant said.
AGO 2696C

105

"Hide the mortars, too. Then we're going to turn
ourselves into a rifle platoon and join the fire fight
on the hill. Get the word to the mortar men over
in the draw."
The men worked fast. They armed themselves
with whatever weapons they could lay their hands
on. Acting as a rifle platoon, they fought their
way up the hill and engaged the enemy hand-tohand. Thirty minutes later the enemy called it off
for the night. Company E had 55 men still on
their feet and 26 of these were from the weapons
platoon.
ANALYSIS. This platoon leader was outstanding in the leadership traits of initiative, decisiveness, and courage. He made a sound and timely
decision to have his :men operate as a rifle platoon.
He took responsibility for his action. If he had
waited for an order from his company commander,
he could not have joined the fight on the hill where
his assistance meant victory for his company.
COMBAT EXAMPLE NO. 4: Company L was
understrength as a result of months of hard fighting in Korea. To make matters worse, it was held
on a hill by mortar and machinegun fire. A
Chinese machinegun on the company's left flank
covered the draw to the front, and a bunker up the
road served as an enemy OP, giving cover to a
crew of Chinese who were directing mortar and
artillery fire.
Sergeant John Doe commanded a platoon that
was then little more than a squacj.-only 12 men.
With this team of 12 men and one tank, Doe was
assigned the task of taking the hill and the bunker.
106

AGO 2695C

..

The sergeant studied his map and made a personal reconnaissance. As he went over his plans,
he recalled that the battaljon 82 had said there was
a long trench directly behind the bunker. He then
met with the tank commander and the two worked
out their plan of attack point by point. Next, he
brought the 12 men of his platoon together 11nd
carefully oriented them on the attack.
The tank-infantry team moved out together. The·
tank was to keep firing as long as possible without
endangering the advancing foot soldiers ..
When they arrived within 350 . yards 9f the
bunker, enemy artillery, mortar, and machinegun
fire started coming. in. Sergeant boe called for his
own artillery support. He kept the platoon moving
toward the enemy '~· fast as they could ~alk.
Every man .in the platoon could hear him yelling,
"Keep moving, you! They can't hit us!''
Just after his own ~rtilJery and tank fire was
li.fted, the platoon reached the bunker. The sergeant
dropped a couple of hand grenades inside. Leaving
two men to guard the bunker, the sergeant prodded
the rest of his platoon on· until they reached the
trench-the one the 82 mentioned. There Doe
found 31 stunned Chinese ready to surrender;
After having all prisoners searched, he selected
one of them to go back with him to the bunker.
By having the prisoner enter the bunker ahead of
him and making him shift all suspicious equipment
as he moveQ through, Doe safeguarded himself
against ·possible boobytraps.
AGO 2ii96C

107

After he searched the bunker, the sergeant sent
the prisoners back. Then he began setting up his
defense. Only nine of his men were left now, but
they dug in to defend their position throughout the
night. The next morning help arriyed.
ANALYSIS. This leader was technically and
tactically proficient because he planned after a
careful reconnaissance arid after· conferring with
his tank commander. He set the example by lead. ing the attack. He had his troops advance close
behind the artillery fire even though he knew that
without the support of artillery the hazards of
enemy fire were greate:r than the hazards of short
rounds.. When he came under enemy artillery and
mortar fire, he pressed his men on· t<?ward the objective because .he knew· that the epemy seldom
shortens his range when his fire is already falling
close to his own position. His immediate reorganization and setting up of a dt:.fense on his captured
position clinched the success of the operation he.
had so carefully phmned.
COMBAT EXAMPLE NO. 5: During his early
training, the lieutenant had learned well the
devastating effects that contaminated water could
have on the human body. Now he was in command
of the 3d platoon of one of the first engineer companies to fight in the Korean conflict.
In the early days of the fighting in Korea, the
only watering points available were the nearest
streams, wells, or rice paddie~all of which were
contaminated. Usually, a detail of one or two men
collected the empty canteens from the other men
108

AG0.. 2696C

I

of the platoon, filled them at the nearest source of
water, and returned · them. to their owners. Each
man was SU{>plied with halazone tablets and had
been instructed to use them. However, on inspection, the lieutenant found that few of his men had
voluntarily used the halazone.
To guard against the effects. of contaminated
water, the· lieutenant first issued an order that no
soldier could fill his own canteen---:-all empty
canteens were to be turned in at his CP. When
enough of these were collected to warrant a trip
to the watering point, the lieutenant sent a couple
of men to fill the canteens. But they were orqered
the full .canteens to the CP_:._not to their
to. return
.·
.
owners. Upon the return of the full canteens, the
lieutenant personally saw to it,thatin each canteen
the required number of. halazi:me tablets 'Yere di~­
solved. Then he wa.ited 30 minutes beforeissuing
the canteens to their owners. It takes that long for
the tablets to have their full effect on the deadly
micro-organisms in the water.
The men complained because they did not like
the taste of the halazoned water .. A few tried to
fill their own canteens on the sly but the lieutenant
put a quick stop to that. Then he ealled his nien
together and patiently explained t.he dangers that
lurk in untreated contaminated water.
The · results of the lieutenant's ca,reful supervision over the treatment .of each man's drinking
water are evident in the records of his company.
His was the only platoon in the company thi;i.t did
not evacuate one or more men with dysentery.
'

'

AGO 2696C

'

-

'

'

'

'

'.

'

'

109

{
Because of actions like this--some of which at
first seemed to be needless-his men soon learned
to have a feeling of deep respect for this leader.
ANALYSIS. This platoon leader thoroughly
understood and fulfilled his obligations to his men
by looking after their welfare. He had the moral
courage to do the unpopular thing in order to
maintain an efficient fighting unit. He did not remain unpopular because his actions soon proved to
his men that their welfare was of great concern to
him.
Some men take little care of themselves even
though the rules for maintaining good health under
fighting conditions are repeatedly . explained to
them. Some will try every conceivable subterfuge
to avoid taking inoculations and internal preventive
medicines such as atabrine. It is the leader's responsibility to see that all health measures are
carried out by each of his men.
COMBAT EXAMPLE NO. 6: The transportatJon truck company was bivouacked in a muddy
little orchard with a narrow, slippery road leading
out of it. Enemy heavy mortar and artillery fire
began falling in the area and began creeping in on
the company. It was obvious that the enemy had
spotted the bivouac. The company commander told
his vehicle commanders to bring their trucks out
and move about 500 yards to the reverse slope of a
hill. Consideral>le confusion ensued, and the
drivers began to get panic stricken.
The company commander realized the situation
and deliberately moved to the road where the ve110

AGO 2695C

f

\}
\

\

~

·-. ,

1t

hicles came. to ·it from .the orchard. He. motioned
·each vehicle onto the road just as if he were directing traffic ill. his home town. Heknew that if
one. vehicle slipped into the ditch, the others would
be unable to get out of the orchard .. However, each
driver seeing the company commander calmly
standing in the road, drove out of the orchard· as '
if he were driving out of a vehicle park. One of
the sergeants later said that if th.e company commander had not been there, he would have taken
off in flight.
ANALYSIS. It is essential that a leader cultivate a calm controlled manner. Often an act is less
important than the manner in which it is done. A
leader, particularly, must co1ltrol his. physical reactions and facial expressions. An ou_tward appearance of calmness ori hi.s part will do. much to instill
confidence in his men. This demands self-control
and self-discipline by the leader.
COMBAT EXAMPLE NO. 7: At this stage of
fighting in Korea no reserves remained to give relief. The platoon had suffered sixteen casualties
within the past two weeks and the platoon sergeant
was now the acting platoon leader. The men were
dead-tired, but the platoon was ordered to attack a
high ridge to the front.
Intelligence reports indicated that the ridge was
held by only a handful of enemy who might be
knocked off their positions with no great diffiGulty.
The platoon attacked, and advanced slowly to a
point within 50 yards of the top of the ridge. At
this point the enemy were evidently out of all other
AGO 26950

111

ammunition and began throwing concussion grenades.
The concussion grenade used by the Communists
in Korea at the time of this attack was not much
more dangerous in the open than a giant firecracker. Unfortunately the men in this attacking.
platoon did not understand this. The exploding grenades made a terrific noise which caused the men
to drop behind what cover they could find and stop
their advance. By the time the platoon sergeant
had evaluated the situation, many of the men had
already turned and withdrawn to their original
line of departure.
The sergeant did not give in but told his men,
"I'll show you there is no danger." He climbed the
ridge alone and proceeded to walk its entire length,
outlining himself against the skyline. Impressed
by the daring of their platoon sergeant and
realizing that the situation was not so dangerous
as they had thought, the men readily resumed the
attack under the command of the assistant platoon sergeant. The objective was taken without
casualties.
ANALYSIS., The sergeant realized that no
threats of punishment would cause his men to
attack. By setting a courageous example himself,
his men were enabled to control their fear and
continue the attack.
When men become afraid on the battlefield, the
sight of their leader calmly going about his work
with no obvious fear will inspire them to continue
their mission.
112

AGO 2696C

'-·

~

CPMBAT·EXAlUPLI!; NO. 8: On 2 November
1950, orders were received by an infantry battaliqn
to move from its ppesent position north, about 40
miles, to cover the .withdrawal of a. regiment. The
battalion was on the new position 'at ~usk on 2
November. The· Chinese Communists· had just
entered the ~ar. ·. Tlle next morning the regiment
passed through the batt~lion position. As it cleared
the position, the' battalion commander received orders to withdraw to the village of AN.J'U some 5
111'iles south just across the. CHQN.,CHON Rjver.
He made plans for .'the withdrawal arid dfrected the
.he~vy weapons' ~o:inpany commander to have the
81-mm mortar platoon remain
position, to cover
by' fire the withdrawal of the other units.
.
The Chinese attacked while the withdrawal was
in progress .. Lieuten.ant Mike, the ,mortar platoon
lE.mder,, had. his platoon contirme tq ;fire until all the
81-mm ammunition was expended. He then. took
stock of the number of men -yvith him; .their .weapons, ammunition, food,, water_ and whether or. not
they were :wounded.. He .had only 11, soldiers. From
his position on.the ,reverse slope: of,. one of the
highes.t hills in ~he area. b,e could see the Chinese
columns in .the valley behind him .and on many of
the ridges to either flank. His only vehic~~ had
been destroyed by .·enemy artillery; He ·";made a
qujck estimate of the situation· and .decided that
the platoon must evade capture and rejQin the battalion and that the mortars should be destroyed in
place. While theqnite ·grenades were .placed in all
mortar tubes, Lieutenant Mike, lo0ked f()r areas
which we~e not oc;cu:pied by. the', enemy; in an

in

) ,"

/f

AG0,2696C
539933 0 -60 -8

.113

attempt to locate an escape route that the platoon
could use.
·
. It was early afternoon as the platoon began to
·move in the direction of the CHON-CHON River,
·utilizing a small ridge that ran in that direction.
They had moved approximately 800 yards when an
enemy patrol about' platoon size was observed a
short distance to the north, moving in their dii'ec~
tion. This caused them to change their direction.
As they came opposite the battalion command post
location they .could look dowd into the area. Men
were walking around, U. S. vehicles were in a nor~
mal position-the scene was very peaceful.
to .·move .
Lieutenant Mike
cautioned' the
'.
.
. men
.
quickly and quietly past the area. However, one of·
the men could not resist and· called out, "Are you
guys GI's ?" The answer came in the form of
machinegun and rifle fire. Two men were killed ahd
all but one of the platoon were wounded. ·Enemy
soldiers started in their direction. Lieutenant Mike
urged the men to move quickly along the ridgeline
and he remained behind to delay the. enemy patrol.
This enabled the platoon to escape and shortly
Lieutenant Mike rejoined his platoon. It was dark
by this time and the men wanted to stop· and sleep.
Lieutenant Mike allowed the men to rest for a
short period then required ·them to move ·out to
take advantage·of darkness. They managed to reach
the bank of the CHON-CHON River without being
detected by the enemy. They could hear talking
across the river but remembering their earlier
expez:ience, Lieutenant Mike decided to conceal· the
group in a· ravine. near· the river ·and await day114

AGO 2695C

r

i

I~

I.
I

I

light which was just an hour or two away. The
river was frozen and at dawn Lieutenant Mike left
the concealed platoon and made a reconnaissance.
He clearly identified the U. S. positions on the far
side of the river and took his ·platoon· back into
the friendly positions.
ANALYSIS. Situations will occur on the battlefield that put the leader under great stress. This is
one of those instances. Lieutenant Mike had shown
his dependability by attention to duty on a difficult
mission. . He used a keen sense of judgment in
estimating the situation and deciding on a course
of action. He made a sound and timely decision
when, after expending all ammunition, he planned
to evade capture and return to friendly lines, He
remembered his basic responsibility for· welfare of
his men by taking stock of their condition. During
the evasion, one of the men created quite a problem
for Lieutenant .Mike by yelling and drawing
· enemy fire on the platoon. Lieutenant Mike quickly
got the survivors moving ai:id with a demonstration
of courage and unselfishness made possible the
escap~. By a knowledge of evasion tactics, he kept
the platoon moving at night and then carefully
planned the daylight movejnto friendly lines.

AGO 26950

115

INDEX

..
Paragraph

.Page

Adjustment of the soldier_____ '---------·

13

17

Bearing _______________·_______________

26

30

62
Chain of com~and_____________________
Combat:
Effectiveness, factors adversely
65-68 ·
affecting.
Willingness-----------'-----------64
Combat examples---!---------------'---'-- App. II
Command:
Accompaniments---.-------.,--------·
6
52
Assumption_______________________
___________ .:________________
62
Exercise_.:._: _________ '- ____ :_ _____ .:.__
6

81

Decisiveness __________________________ .
Dependability________________________ _
Discipline ____________________________ _

c_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

Endurance ___________________________ _
Enthusiasm __________________________ _
Esprit de corps-----------------------·
Fear ________________________________ _
116

84
102

6

9
64
81
9
9

4
72

7
97

4,8
63
56
19

. 7, 11
82
70
22

20
21
46

23
24
57

27
25
47

34
29
58

66

86

Chain~

and Leadership~-------'-----------·
Commander:
'.
Definition----------'-------·-------·
. Relationship with supporting
units.
.
.Resp<msihilities.:. ___________
Staff officer. relationshiP-------'-----Counseling.,.---------------.,.----------Courage (physical and moral) __________ _

85

AG0·2695C

~

•

Paragraph

Page

Human:
Adjustment_ _____________________ _
Behavior _________ _: ____ ._ _________ _
Goals and frustration's_· _________ ·___ _
Needs ___________________________ _

13
9-14
12

17
l2
16
14

Individual differences _________________ _
Initiative ____________________________ _
Integrity _____________________ -:-----,-~

'22

12
25

. 17

20

Judgn1ent ____________________________ _

30

36

Junior leaders:
Development_ ____________________ _
Selection _________________ -----,---,-

54

Justice ___ ~------ - - - - -- - ----- -- ------ -

24

67
65
28

J(nowledge _____________ ~--------------

18

21

11

10

53

Leadership:
..
Actions and 01:ders_~-~-----------·-4
Aspects of organization ____________ _ 60-63
for Attached units _________________ _
73
5
Charac.teristics ____---,--~---------"in Combat _______________________ _
64-72
Definition ________________________ _
4
-Elements ________________________ _
5
of Female groups __________________ _
58
Genera.I concepts _________________ _
2
Indications __________________ _: ____ _ 4,43-49
3
Military concepts--------~--------Principles ________________________'.__ 4, 31-.:,42
Problems ________________________ _ 50-59
Traits _____________________________ 4, 15-30

7
77
. 98
8

84
7
8
75
3
7, 54
5
7,37

62
7, 19

LoyaltY-------~~---------------------­

29

35

Military:
Leader _________ ..c ________________ _

3,4

5
8

Leadership::.~----------------------

Objecttves ________________________ _
Morale-----------------------------~AGO 2696C

4
7
45

IO

55
117

Paragraph

Pave

Organization and controL______________

60

77

Panic------------------------------·
Problem· solving process--------~------Proficiency ___________________________ _
Purpose and scope ____________________ _

68

89
62

51
48.

59
3

1

Reception and integration _____________ _
References ___________________________ _

57
App.I
Restoration of fighting effectiveness _____ _
70
Rumors ______________________________ _
67
Senior-subordinate relationship _________ _
Span of controL ____________________ _; __
Spirit of the offensive _________________ _
Support of isolated units ______________ _
Tact ________________________________ _
Unselfishness _________________________ _

72

101
94

86
69

55
61

79
76

69
71

96

23

26

28·

34

[AG 353 (23 Sep 58) I

By Order of Wilber M. Brucker, Secretary of the
Army:

Official:

MAXWELL D. TAYLOR,
General, United Stat.es Army,
Chief of Staff.

R. V. LEE,
Major General, United States Army,
The Adjutant General.
Dist~ibut-ion:

Active A rmu:

DCSPER (5)
ACSI (5)
DCSOPS 15)
DCSL0G (5)
ACSRC (5J
CAMG (2)
CoA (2)

CUSARROTC (2)

118

CofF (2)
CINFO (2)
CNGB (2)
CLL (2)
CMH (2)

Dir of Sp Warfare (2)
TIG (2)
TJAG (2)

AGO 2695C

'tPMG (2)
TAG (2)
Ci>fCh (2)
Technical Stf, DA (2)
Admin & Technical Stf Bil
(2)

USCONARC (15)
US·ARADCOM (5)
US ARADCOM Rgn (5)
OS Maj Comd 15)
OS Base Comd (5)
MDW (2l
Arm.ies (15)
Corps (5)
Div (5)
USATC (15)
Brig
Regt/Gp/Bg (5)
Bn (5)
Co/Btry (3)
Class I Inst! (2) ·
USAWC (5)
USACGSC ( 1750)

is>

Br Svc .Sch ( 5 l except
US ARADSCH (600)
USAIS (3700)
USAES (500)
USACAMGSCH (500)
l]SATSCH ( 700)
AMSS . (1500>
USA QM Sch (59)
USASCS (26)
USA Ord Sch (800)
USAAMS (2400)
USAARMS (1500)
USACmlCTngCom (150)
USAINTC .060)
PMST Sr Div Units (2)
PMST Jr Div. Units (2)
PMST Mil Sch Div Units
(2)

Mil Dist (4)
USA Corps (Res) ( 4)
Sector Comd, USA Corps
(Res) (4)
Mil Mi. (1)

NG: State AG

(3) ; units--same as Active Army except allowance
is one copy to each unit.

USAR: Same as Active Army except allowance is one copy to each
unit.
For explanation of abbreviations used, see AR 320-60.

\

'

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1960 0 • 539933

AGO 2695C

119

•

