Department of the Army
Pamphlet 600–3

Personnel—General

Officer
Professional
Development
and Career
Management

Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC
3 April 2019

UNCLASSIFIED

SUMMARY of CHANGE
DA PAM 600–3
Officer Professional Development and Career Management
This expedited revision, dated 3 April 2019—
o

Replaces Expanded Graduate School Program with Performance Based Graduate School Incentive Program (para 3–
5b(4)).

o

Changes the requirements for warrant officer development (paras 3–11b, 3–11c, and 3–11d).

o

Adds the regulations which manage Army National Guard officers and warrant officers (para 7–1b).

o

Adds the regulation which regulates the Ready Reserve (para 7–2b).

o

Changes skills, knowledge, and attitudes to align with FM 6–22 (throughout).

Headquarters
Department of the Army
Washington, DC
3 April 2019

*Department of the Army
Pamphlet 600–3
Personnel—General

Officer Professional Development and Career Management
can expect throughout a career. It emphasizes the need of the future force leader to
broaden and acquire a greater depth vice
breadth of experience in challenging leadership positions. In addition, this pamphlet
provides a summary of the special branches
(The Judge Advocate General’s Corps,
Chaplain Corps, and U.S. Army Medical
Department).

History. This publication is an expedited
revision. The portions affected by this expedited revision are listed in the summary
of change.
Summary. This pamphlet outlines officer development and career management
programs for each of the Army’s career
branches and functional areas. It does not
prescribe the path of assignment or educational assignments that will guarantee success but rather describes the full spectrum
of developmental opportunities an officer

of colonel or the civilian equivalent. Activities may request a waiver to this pamphlet
by providing justification that includes a
full analysis of the expected benefits and
must include formal review by the activity’s senior legal officer. All waiver requests will be endorsed by the commander
or senior leader of the requesting activity
and forwarded through their higher headquarters to the policy proponent. Refer to
Applicability. This pamphlet applies to
AR 25–30 for specific guidance.
the Regular Army, the Army National
Guard/Army National Guard of the United Suggested improvements. Users are
States, and the U.S. Army Reserve, unless invited to send comments and suggested
otherwise stated. During mobilization, pro- improvements on DA Form 2028 (Recomcedures in this publication can be modified mended Changes to Publications and Blank
Forms) directly to the Deputy Chief of
to support policy changes as necessary.
Staff, G–1 (DAPE–MPO), 300 Army PenProponent and exception authority.
tagon, Washington DC 20310–0300.
The proponent of this pamphlet is the Deputy Chief of Staff, G–1. The proponent has Distribution. This pamphlet is available
the authority to approve exceptions or in electronic media only and is intended for
waivers to this pamphlet that are consistent Regular Army, the Army National
with controlling law and regulations. The Guard/Army National Guard of the United
proponent may delegate this approval au- States, and the U.S. Army Reserve.
thority, in writing, to a division chief within
the proponent agency or its direct reporting
unit or field operating agency, in the grade

Contents (Listed by paragraph and page number)
Chapter 1
Introduction, page 1
Purpose • 1–1, page 1
References and forms • 1–2, page 1
Explanation of abbreviations and terms • 1–3, page 1
Current perspective • 1–4, page 1
Warrior ethos and Army Values • 1–5, page 1
The Army profession • 1–6, page 2
Mentoring, counseling, and coaching • 1–7, page 2
Officer Personnel Management System overview • 1–8, page 2
Warrant officer personnel management overview • 1–9, page 3
Evaluation Entry System overview • 1–10, page 4
Chapter 2
Officer Leader Development, page 5
Leader development overview • 2–1, page 5
Leader development strategy • 2–2, page 5
*This pamphlet supersedes DA Pam 600-3, dated 26 June 2017.

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

UNCLASSIFIED

i

Contents—Continued

Domains of leader development • 2–3, page 5
Leader principles • 2–4, page 6
Leader development and the Officer Education System • 2 –5, page 7
Chapter 3
Officer Personnel Management System and Career Management, page 8
Purpose • 3–1, page 8
Factors affecting the Officer Personnel Management System • 3–2, page 9
Officer Personnel Management System • 3–3, page 9
Officer development • 3–4, page 11
Company grade development • 3–5, page 13
Major development • 3–6, page 14
Lieutenant colonel development • 3–7, page 15
Colonel development • 3–8, page 16
Warrant officer definitions • 3–9, page 16
Warrant officer career patterns • 3–10, page 17
Warrant officer development • 3–11, page 17
Introduction to officer skills • 3–12, page 18
Joint officer professional development • 3–13, page 18
Assignment process and considerations • 3–14, page 20
Individual career management • 3–15, page 21
Chapter 4
Officer Education, page 22
Scope • 4–1, page 22
The Officer Education System • 4–2, page 22
Current paths to officer education • 4–3, page 22
Guides for branch, military occupational specialty, or functional area development courses • 4–4, page 22
Nonresident schools and instruction • 4–5, page 23
Educational counseling • 4–6, page 24
Military schools • 4–7, page 24
Department of Defense and Department of State schools • 4–8, page 24
Foreign schools • 4–9, page 24
Language training • 4–10, page 24
Aviation training • 4–11, page 24
Command team training and education • 4–12, page 24
Other military schooling • 4–13, page 25
Application for military schools • 4–14, page 25
Service obligation • 4–15, page 25
Civilian education • 4–16, page 25
Education programs • 4–17, page 25
Tuition assistance • 4–18, page 26
Eligibility criteria and application procedures • 4–19, page 26
Chapter 5
Officer Promotions, page 27
General • 5–1, page 27
Promotion process objectives • 5–2, page 27
Statutory requisites • 5–3, page 27
Active duty list • 5–4, page 27
Promotion process • 5–5, page 28
Army grade structure • 5–6, page 28
Promotion flow • 5–7, page 28
Below-the-zone promotions • 5–8, page 29
Competitive categories • 5–9, page 29
Impact of the Officer Personnel Management System evolution • 5–10, page 29
ii

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

Contents—Continued

Chapter 6
Officer Evaluation System, page 30
Overview • 6–1, page 30
Officer evaluation reporting • 6–2, page 30
Relationship with the Officer Personnel Management System, leader development, and character development process • 6–3, page 31
Chapter 7
Reserve Component Officer Development and Career Management, page 31
Purpose • 7–1, page 31
Reserve Component overview • 7–2, page 31
Officer Personnel Management System • 7–3, page 32
Commissioned officer development • 7–4, page 33
Warrant officer development • 7–5, page 34
Management considerations • 7–6, page 35
Individual mobilization augmentee (U.S. Army Reserve – SELECT Reserve) • 7–7, page 35
Officer education • 7–8, page 36
Promotion • 7–9, page 36
Appendixes
A. References, page 37
Glossary

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

iii

Chapter 1
Introduction
1 –1. Purpose
This pamphlet serves primarily as a professional development guide for all officers. It does not prescribe the path of assignments or educational requirements that will guarantee success, but rather describes the full spectrum of developmental
opportunities an officer can expect for a successful career. This document also serves as a mentoring tool for leaders at all
levels and is an important personnel management guide for assignment officers, proponent, and Headquarters, Department
of the Army (HQDA) election board members. Its focus is the development and career management of all officers of the
U.S. Army.
1 –2. References and forms
See appendix A.
1 –3. Explanation of abbreviations and terms
See glossary.
1 –4. Current perspective
a. Officer development for the Army should effectively balance breadth and depth of experience. Army operations are
inherently joint. Officers must understand the terms of DODI 1300.19 and the Joint Qualification System. Officers should
focus on developmental positions that enhance career progression and lead to joint qualified officer status. All assignments
are important to sustain a trained and ready Army. An officer’s focus should be on bringing the warrior ethos to every job
and every facet of their development. Officers use challenging assignments at all levels to help them hone, through experience, what they have learned through their formal education about leading and training Soldiers. Operational factors—
the constraints of time, Army requirements, positions available, and readiness—all influence the amount of time an officer
will need to acquire appropriate leadership skills. Success will depend not on the number or type of positions held, but
rather on the quality of duty performance in every assignment. It is tied to individual contribution, and related to the
individual officer’s definition of success in the Army profession. Not all officers will be afforded opportunities to perform
all types of duty. The types and extent of duties and assignments are articulated in the following chapters. For this publication, the term "officers" encompasses warrant officers (warrant officers are appointed by commission at the grade of
chief warrant officer two (CW2)), company grade officers, and field grade officers. All officers are direct representatives
of the President of the United States. Chapters relating to officer education, general promotion policies, and officer evaluation apply to all special branches as well. The governing regulations for this pamphlet are AR 600–3 and AR 350–1.
b. Officers are encouraged to read both DA Pam 600–3 and Smartbook DA Pam 600–3, regardless of branch, functional
area (FA), military occupational specialty (MOS), or career field held, because unique and valuable lessons in Army culture
and officer professional development are found in every section. The Smartbook DA Pam 600–3 is available at
https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbook-da-pam-600–3.
c. This pamphlet documents officer personnel management and incorporates the evolving philosophies of the Army
leadership. The Officer Personnel Management System (OPMS) enhances the warfighting capability of the Army, provides
all officers with the information they need to ensure a reasonable opportunity for career success, and describes a framework
that fulfills Army requirements with an officer corps balanced with the right grades and skills. Successive personnel management studies have shown the need for a development and career management system that provides for the career development of the warrant officer segment of the Army’s officer corps. Better integration of warrant officers into the officer
corps enhances the effectiveness and professionalism of warrant officers through improvements in training, development,
assignment, promotion, and retention practices.
1 –5. Warrior ethos and Army Values
Everything begins with the warrior ethos. The warrior ethos compels Soldiers to fight through all conditions to victory no
matter how much effort is required. It is the Soldiers’ selfless commitment to the nation, mission, unit, and fellow Soldiers.
It is the professional attitude that inspires every American Soldier. Warrior ethos is grounded in refusal to accept failure.
It is developed and sustained through discipline, commitment to Army Values, and pride in the Army’s heritage. Warrior
ethos is the foundation for our total commitment to victory in peace and war. It is the conviction that military service is
much more than just another job. It defines who officers are and what officers do. It is linked to this country’s longstanding
Army Values and the determination to do what is right and do it with pride. Soldiers enter the Army with their own values,
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

1

developed in childhood and nurtured through experience. We are all shaped by what we have seen, what we have learned,
and whom we have met. However, once Soldiers put on the uniform and take the oath, they have opted to accept a warrior
ethos and have promised to live by Army Values. Army Values form the very identity of the Army. They are nonnegotiable
and apply to everyone at all times, in all situations. The trust that Soldiers have for one another and the trust the American
people put in us demands that we live up to these values. These values are interdependent; that is, they support one another.
You cannot follow one value and ignore another. The seven values that guide all leaders and the rest of the Army are
loyalty, duty, respect, selfless service, honor, integrity, and personal courage. Leaders must believe in them, model them
in personal actions, and teach others to accept them. Officers require a demonstrated mastery of branch, FA, or MOSspecific skills, and grounding in these seven values to successfully lead Soldiers in to the future. Officer leaders who adopt
a warrior ethos and a joint, expeditionary mindset will be confident that they are organized, trained, and equipped to operate
anywhere in the world, at any time, in any environment, against any adversary to accomplish the assigned mission.
1 –6. The Army profession
a. The Army profession assessed. In 2010, senior Army leadership directed the Commander, U.S. Army Training and
Doctrine Command (TRADOC) to conduct a comprehensive review of the Army profession. This Armywide assessment
began in January 2011. The purpose was to assess how the Army has changed after more than 10 years of continuous
deployments and how it must adapt to remain successful in an era of persistent conflict.
b. The Army profession defined. The Army is an American profession of arms, a vocation composed of experts certified
in the ethical application of land combat power, serving under civilian authority, entrusted to defend the Constitution and
the rights and interests of the American people.
c. The Army professional defined. An American professional Soldier is an expert, a volunteer certified in the profession
of arms, bonded with comrades in a shared identity and culture of sacrifice and service to the nation and the Constitution,
who adheres to the highest ethical standards and is a steward of the future of the Army profession.
1 –7. Mentoring, counseling, and coaching
a. Today’s leaders have the critical responsibility to develop future leaders who are prepared to meet tomorrow’s challenges. An essential component of this development is mentoring. The term mentorship refers to the voluntary, developmental relationship between a person of greater experience and a person of lesser experience that is characterized by mutual
trust and respect (see ADP 6–22 for additional information on mentorship).
b. Mentorship impacts both personal development (maturity, interpersonal, and communication skills) as well as professional development (technical and tactical knowledge and career-path knowledge).
c. The goal of mentorship is to assist the lesser-experienced person in reaching their personal and professional potential.
It is critical to understand that mentorship is not any one behavior or set of behaviors, but rather includes all of the leader
development behaviors (for example, counseling, teaching, coaching, and role modeling) that are displayed by a trusted
advisor.
d. The strength of the mentorship relationship is based on mutual trust and respect. Assessment, feedback, and guidance
accelerate the developmental process and enhance performance. When this occurs within a mentoring relationship, even
higher performance results.
e. Mentoring requires taking advantage of any opportunity to teach, counsel, or coach to build skills and confidence in
the mentored. Mentoring is not limited to formal, structured sessions, but can include every event from quarterly training
briefs, to after action reviews, to unstructured, casual, recreational activities. To aid in the mentorship (and career management) process, the Army has developed and implemented the Army Career Tracker (available at https://actnow.army.mil),
an Army leadership development tool that uses the professional development model (PDM) and provides a common picture
of training and experience. Used properly, this tool facilitates structured mentorship and can be utilized and revised by
successive mentors as an officer progresses in experience. Additionally, the Army Mentorship Program (available at
https://myarmybenefits.us.army.mil) is an official effort to provide additional resources for leaders and junior officers.
f. One of the most important legacies that today’s senior leaders can leave with the Army is to mentor junior leaders to
fight and win future conflicts. Mentoring develops great leaders to lead great Soldiers.
1 –8. Officer Personnel Management System overview
a. Historical perspective. The OPMS was instituted in 1972, as a result of the U.S. Army War College Study on Military Professionalism and a follow-on analysis directed by the Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS), G–1. Numerous changes in
personnel management policy were incorporated into OPMS between its implementation in 1975 and 1981. After passage
of the Defense Officer Personnel Management Act (DOPMA) by Congress in 1981, the Chief of Staff, Army (CSA),
ordered a major review to examine the impact of the legislation on OPMS policies. As a result, OPMS II was developed

2

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

in 1984 to accommodate the changes brought about by DOPMA. These proposals were implemented beginning in 1985.
Two years later, the CSA directed a review of officer leader development to account for the changes in law, policy, and
procedures that had occurred since the creation of OPMS II. As a result of the study, the Leader Development Action Plan
was approved for implementation in 1989. Over 50 recommendations representing the latest revisions to the officer personnel system were incorporated into OPMS. The Army has undergone significant changes with widespread effect on the
officer personnel system, brought about by the drawdown at the end of the Cold War and by major legislative initiatives.
Public Law (PL) 99–433, commonly referred to as The Goldwater-Nichols Act, required the Services to improve interoperability and provided the statutory requirements for joint duty assignments, joint tour credit, and joint military education.
This law also specified the acquisition experiences and education necessary for an officer to be the project manager of a
major weapons system. PL 102–484 contained Title XI Army Guard Combat Reform Initiative legislation, which placed
additional officer requirements on the Regular Army (RA) in their support of the Army National Guard (ARNG) and U.S.
Army Reserve (USAR). In 1996, the Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act (ROPMA) was enacted by PL 103 –337
and brought the Reserve Component (RC) officer promotion systems in synchronization with the Active Component (AC).
With an 8-year span since the last formal OPMS review, the DCS, G–1 assembled a team of senior field grade officers to
examine a series of OPMS-specific issues and determine whether a general review of the entire officer system was warranted. The OPMS XXI Precursor Study Group, under the direction of Commanding General (CG), U.S. Army Human
Resources Command (HRC), ultimately reviewed more than 60 individual issues. Based on the collective body of these
issues, the DCS, G–1 recommended to the CSA that a comprehensive review of the OPMS was necessary. As a result, the
OPMS XXI Task Force convened in July 1996 to review and recommend changes to the OPMS. Consistent with the task
of developing capabilities to meet the challenges of the next century, the CSA instructed the task force to link their work
with other ongoing Army planning efforts. The focus was to take the Army in a direction to meet its vision of the future
instead of simply solving individual problems. The task force concluded that OPMS should incorporate a holistic, strategic
human resource management approach to officer development and personnel management. In addition, the task force
called for the creation of an officer career field-based management system composed of four career fields: operations,
operational support, institutional support, and information operations. Under OPMS XXI, officers were designated into a
single career field after their selection for major and began serving and competing for promotion in their designated career
field from that point on in their career. The results of these strategic recommendations, approved by the CSA in December
1997, formed the basis for the changes to the OPMS.
b. Current perspective. As security threats, the U.S. economy, and national labor markets continue to change and develop, the Army’s human capital model must also adapt in order to acquire, develop, employ, and retain the talents necessary to fight and win our nation’s wars. The Army is currently in the midst of a revolutionary transformation of its personnel
management system, moving from an industrial era, interchangeable parts approach to one that capitalizes on information
era technology to aid in management of our scarce talent. The Secretary of the Army’s Human Capital Reform Initiatives
have directed key Army stakeholders to lead this transformation, which will ultimately result in enhanced abilities to both
see and use the unique talents resident in the Army officer ranks. The Army’s Talent Management Strategy underpins and
guides these efforts, which include policy reform, requests for legislative change, and advancement of the technology
required to effectively manage talent. Additionally, the Talent Management Strategy directs that adaption and transformation should be inherent and continuously maintained attributes of our personnel system.
c. Purpose. The purpose of OPMS is to enhance the effectiveness and professionalism of the officer corps. The OPMS
encompasses all policies and procedures by which Army field grade, company grade, and warrant officers are trained,
educated, developed, assigned, evaluated, promoted, and separated from active duty. The OPMS consists of personnel
management policies and procedures that assure a deployable, professional officer corps capable of meeting the challenges
of the future as embodied in Joint Operations Concepts.
d. Coordination. The proponent provides guidelines concerning career patterns and leader development, as listed in
AR 600–3. The coordinating agency for officers on the active duty list (ADL) is the Officer Personnel Management Directorate (AHRC–OPB), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122–5200; for ARNG officers, the agency
is the Chief, National Guard Bureau, (CNGB–ARNG–HRH–O), 111 South George Mason Drive, Arlington, VA
22204–1382; and for USAR officers not on the ADL, the agency is the Commander, U.S. Army Human Resources Command (ARPC–OP), 1600 Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122–5200.
1 –9. Warrant officer personnel management overview
a. Perspective. The current Army Warrant Officer Program was announced on 12 April 1960 and outlined utilization
policies, criteria for selection of warrant officer positions, and instructions for conversion to the current warrant officer
MOS system. In 1966, a study group was formed at the Department of the Army (DA) level to develop a Warrant Officer
Career Program, which would address Army requirements while providing career opportunities to attract high-quality
personnel. The study group made recommendations in areas such as pay, promotion, utilization, and education. By 1975,
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

3

the Army's capability for professionally developing the Warrant Officer Corps had been significantly expanded and warrant officers were being offered developmental opportunities not available to their predecessors. In the 1981 DOPMA,
officer career management was codified, but specifically excluded warrant officers. To fill that void, the CSA chartered a
Total Warrant Officer Study (TWOS) in 1984. The TWOS introduced a number of changes including a new definition of
the warrant officer. The TWOS also resulted in requirements-based position coding in authorization documents and a
training philosophy of "select, train, and utilize." The Warrant Officer Management Act (WOMA) was signed into law
(see PL 102–190) in December 1991, and is the current basis for the management of warrant officers on the ADL. WOMA
provides management of warrant officers by years of warrant officer service (WOS) rather than total service, automatic
RA integration at the chief warrant officer three (CW3) level, created the rank of chief warrant officer five (CW5), permitted selective retention and retirement, and eliminated the dual promotion system. In February 1992, the CSA approved
the warrant officer leader development action plan (WOLDAP). The WOLDAP provided a blueprint for the leader development of Army warrant officers and contained specific recommendations on issues dealing with training, assignments,
civil education, and other subjects for both active and reserve warrant officers. In 2000, the CSA chartered the Army
Training and Leader Development Panel to recommend changes to leader development education for all segments of the
Army. The Warrant Officer Study by this panel revised the definition of warrant officers as: "The warrant officer … is a
self-aware and adaptive technical expert, combat leader, trainer, and advisor. Through progressive levels of expertise in
assignments, training, and education, the warrant officer administers, manages, maintains, operates, and integrates Army
systems and equipment across the full range of Army operations. Warrant officers are innovative integrators of emerging
technologies, dynamic teachers, confident warfighters, and developers of specialized teams of Soldiers. They support a
wide range of Army missions throughout their careers." The warrant officer specific component of OPMS features—
(1) A structure that manages warrant officer utilization and inventories.
(2) Incorporation of warrant officer management into applicable individual branches.
(3) An acquisition program to access quality candidates with appropriate requisite background and skills to meet Army
requirements.
(4) Defined warrant officer personnel policies and professional development requirements.
(5) A means to maintain warrant officers' technical expertise on current and new systems in their units.
(6) Distribution of warrant officers in the force to meet Army requirements. The warrant officer component of OPMS
provides mechanisms for professional development and personnel management for warrant officers throughout their careers.
b. Purpose. The purpose of the warrant officer component of OPMS is to provide a deployable, professional, and ready
warrant officer cohort capable of meeting the challenges of the Army. The OPMS encompasses all policies and procedures
by which Army warrant officers are procured, trained, educated, developed, assigned, evaluated, promoted, and separated
from active duty.
c. Coordination. The proponent provides guidelines concerning career patterns and leader development. The coordinating agency for AC warrant officers is HRC, Officer Personnel Management Directorate; for ARNG warrant officers, the
Chief, National Guard Bureau (CNGB–ARNG–HRH–O), 111 South George Mason Drive, AHS2, Arlington, VA 22204–
1373; and for Reserve warrant officers, the Commander, U.S. Army Human Resource Command (ARPC–OPS), 1600
Spearhead Division Avenue, Fort Knox, KY 40122– 5200.
1 –10. Evaluation Entry System overview
Critical information on the Evaluation Entry System (EES) is documented on the DA Form 67 –10 series (DA Form
67–10–1 (Company Grade Plate (O1 - O3; WO1 – CW2) Officer Evaluation Report), DA Form 67–10–2 (Field Grade
Plate (O4 - O5; CW3 - CW5) Officer Evaluation Report), DA Form 67–10–3 (Strategic Grade Plate (O6) Officer Evaluation Report), and DA Form 67–10–4 (Strategic Grade Plate General Officer Evaluation Report), hereafter referred to as
DA Form 67–10 series or officer evaluation report (OER)) for officer evaluations, and DA Form 1059 (Service School
Academic Evaluation Report) and DA Form 1059–1 (Civilian Institution Academic Evaluation Report) for Service school
and civilian institution academic evaluations. The information contained on these evaluation reports is correlated with the
Army’s needs and individual officer qualifications to provide the basis for officer personnel actions such as promotion,
functional description, retention in grade, elimination, retention on active duty, reduction in force, command and project
manager designation, school selection, and assignment. An equally important function of EES is to encourage the professional development of the officer corps through structured performance and developmental assessment and counseling.
The EES is an important tool for leaders and mentors to counsel officers on the values and any specific elements of the
Army leadership doctrine necessary to improve performance and enhance potential.

4

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

Chapter 2
Officer Leader Development
2 –1. Leader development overview
a. The Army Leader Development Strategy defines leader development as the deliberate, continuous, and progressive
process, founded in Army Values, that grows Soldiers and Army Civilians into competent, committed, professional leaders
of character. Leader development is achieved through the career-long synthesis of the training, education, and experiences
acquired through opportunities in the institutional, operational, and self-development domains, supported by peer and developmental relationships. Army leaders must be able to understand the conditions of the modern global environment,
analyze them in terms of the problems they face and reframe them in mission command terms. Our leaders must be able
to apply problem solving and decision-making skills to defeat an enemy who presents asymmetric threats, who is a fleeting
target and embedded in the populace, who is adaptive and unpredictable, who has the capability to shift between irregular
and conventional warfare, and who is a near peer enemy capable of conventional offense and defense operations as well.
Our officers must have the leadership capabilities to fight among the populace and deny support to our adversaries while
encouraging support to the local government. Leaders must recognize changing operational environments and remain fully
prepared to reconfigure resources to undertake a range of altered missions.
b. The leader and functional competencies we develop through training and experience must provide us with the capability to successfully interact at the human level with not only our own Soldiers, but with unified action partners; the
indigenous populace and government; and with local, national, and international media. To develop this complex and
comprehensive set of leader capabilities requires a strategy that employs military and civilian education, leverages experience gained during assignments in operational or generating force units (as well as during broadening assignments), and
utilizes self-development activities that are broad ranging. This strategy must produce a steady flow of talented, agile
leaders who are proficient in core leader and functional competencies across the operational themes and comfortable with
risk. Leader competencies for decisive action will expand to encompass cross-cultural communications, language, and the
ability to enable economic development, governance, and conflict resolution through negotiation.
2 –2. Leader development strategy
Pursuit of the Army Leader Development Strategy employs the three domains of leader development—institutional, operational, and self-development. These domains define and engage a continuous cycle of education, training, selection, experience, assessment, feedback, reinforcement, and evaluation. Learning, experience, and feedback provide the basis for
professional growth. Overall, leader development enhances leader capabilities for positions of increasing responsibility.
The goal of Army leader development is to create the training, education, and experience conditions that produce agile,
innovative, and adaptive leaders of unimpeachable integrity, character, and competence who act to achieve decisive results
and who understand and are able to exploit the full potential of current and future Army doctrine.
2 –3. Domains of leader development
a. Institutional. The institutional Army (schools and training centers) is the foundation for lifelong learning. Training
is an organized, structured, continuous, and progressive process based on sound principles of learning designed to increase
the capability of individuals, units, and organizations to perform specified tasks or skills. The objective of training is to
increase the ability of leaders to competently perform in training and operational situations. Individual task training builds
individual competence and confidence to perform these tasks in support of collective training and operations. Education is
the process of imparting knowledge and developing the competencies and attributes Army professionals need to accomplish any mission the future may present. Education contributes to the development of Soldier and Army Civilian leader
competencies, focusing on fundamentals which are later practiced, expanded, and improved in training and experience.
Education occurs in the institutional, operational, and self-development domains. As a component of leader development,
education contributes to the growth of the three leader attributes of character, presence, and intellect. Education focuses
on intellect and moral character of leaders to improve judgment and reasoning and hone the habits of the mind: agility,
adaptability, empathy, intellectual curiosity, and creativity. Education in the Army is primarily professional military education (PME) or Civilian Education System, but may include studies within civilian academia. PME and Civilian Education
System are progressive and sequential across a career continuum to ensure that Soldiers and Army Civilians are successful
at each stage of their professional service, while continually growing in the competencies and attributes needed for higher
levels of service.
b. Operational. Operational and broadening assignments constitute the second domain of leader development. Upon
completion of institutional training, leaders are ideally assigned to operational positions. This operational experience provides them the opportunity to use, hone, and build on what they learned through the formal education process. Experience
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

5

gained through on-the-job training in a variety of challenging assignments and additional duties prepares officers to lead
and train Soldiers, both in garrison and ultimately in combat. The commander or leader in the unit plays a significant and
instrumental role in this area. Commanders and other senior leaders are particularly responsible for mentoring that is vital
to the development of junior officers. They introduce the officer to their unit and establish leader development programs.
They explain both unit and individual performance standards, and provide periodic assessments and continual feedback to
develop the officer. Beyond accomplishing the mission on a daily basis, developing subordinate leaders is a professional
responsibility which must be carried out to guarantee the quality of our future leaders. Similarly, periodic assignment to
broadening positions throughout the career timeline provides officers with exposure to a different environment, presents
them with opportunities to work complex problems, and ultimately helps the Army grow strategic, adaptive, and innovative
executive-level leaders capable of performing above and beyond the tactical and operational levels. In order to maximize
an officer’s ability to pursue broadening assignments and be competitive for promotion to senior commissioned ranks, it
is imperative for officers and commanders to understand and adhere to existing guidance that limits key developmental
(KD) assignments.
c. Self-development. Learning is a lifelong process. Institutional training and operational assignments alone do not
ensure that Army officers attain and sustain the degree of competency needed to perform their varied missions. The profession of arms requires comprehensive self-study and training. Leaders must commit to a lifetime of professional and
personal growth to stay at the cutting edge of their profession. They must keep pace with changing operational requirements, new technologies, common weapons platforms, and evolving doctrines. Every officer is responsible for his or her
own self-development. Self-assessment and taking appropriate remedial or reinforcing action is critical to a leader’s success. Self-development programs include activities that stretch the individual beyond the demands of on-the-job or institutional training. Self-development, consisting of individual study, research, professional reading, practice, and self-assessment, is accomplished via numerous means (studying, observing, and experiencing), and is consistent with an officer’s
personal self-development action plan and professional goals. Self-development is the key aspect of individual officer
qualification that solidifies the Army leader development process. A critical component of the self-development domain
is multi-source assessment and feedback (MSAF). Although officers may take ample steps to facilitate self-development,
the MSAF program—also referred to as “360 degree assessment”—helps officers raise self-awareness and better shape
their self-development efforts. The MSAF provides input from peers, superiors, and subordinates which help the rated
officer develop as a self-aware and adaptable leader. Officers can access the “360 degree assessment” at
https://msaf.army.mil. Results of the feedback remain confidential, are only available to the rated officer, and are used for
self-development rather than evaluative purposes.
2 –4. Leader principles
Six principles are inherent in officer development and career management. These principles serve as a frame of reference
for the individual officer, commander, mentor, and branch and FA proponent.
a. Leader development is based on ADP 1, providing the foundation for our warfighting doctrine. It articulates the
constitutional and legal basis for our being, the national security objectives, the spectrum of warfare, and our beliefs concerning the profession of arms to include the professional Army ethic and values. ADP 3–0 is our keystone warfighting
doctrine for subordinate and tactical-level doctrine, professional education, and individual and unit training. ADP 7–0 tells
us how we should train, including the senior leader’s role. ADP 6–22 outlines the core dimensions of leadership and the
basis for leadership excellence. Together, these references provide the foundation needed to develop competent, confident
leaders capable of assuming positions of greater responsibility and creating the conditions for sustained organizational
success.
b. Leader development programs should be responsive to the environment, including such factors as law, policy, resources, force structure, world situation, technology, and professional development.
c. An officer’s success should be measured in terms of contribution. An officer’s professional goals are directly related
to his or her own definition of success in the profession of arms.
d. High-quality Soldiers deserve high-quality leaders. This principle is the heart of leader development and breathes
life into all aspects of the seven Army fundamental imperatives—training, force mix, doctrine, modern equipment, quality
people, leader development, and facilities.
e. We recognize as a philosophy that leaders can be developed. While a principle in itself, it is inextricably linked to
the philosophy of shared responsibilities among the individual leaders; the schoolhouses, branches, and FA proponents
throughout the Army; and the commanders in the field.
f. Leader development is cooperative and holistic. The individual officer, unit commanders, mentors, and Army educational institutions all share in the responsibility for developing leaders at every level.

6

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

2 –5. Leader development and the Officer Education System
a. Company and field grade officers. The Officer Education System provides the formal military educational foundation to company and field grade officers necessary to prepare them for increased responsibilities and successful performance at the next higher level. Its goal is to produce a broad-based corps of leaders who possess the necessary values,
attributes, and skills to perform their duties in service to the nation. These leaders must know how the Army runs and
demonstrate confidence, integrity, critical judgment, and responsibility while operating in an environment of complexity,
ambiguity, and rapid change. To build effective teams capable of supporting joint and multinational operations in this
environment, they must be adaptable, creative, and bold amid continuous organizational and technological change. The
Officer Education System is discussed in more detail in chapter 4. The following paragraphs highlight key aspects of
officer development—
(1) Common core. Common core is the combination of common military tasks, common leader, and directed or mandated tasks for specific courses, grade levels, or organizational levels regardless of branch or career management field or
program. These subjects comprise the tasks all officers are expected to perform successfully, regardless of branch. Common core instruction begins at pre-commissioning and continues at each educational level. The instruction is progressive
and sequential, building upon the skills and knowledge acquired through previous training and operational assignments.
(2) Entry level officer training. To address shortcomings identified by the Army Training and Leader Development
Panel (officer) study, the Army implemented the Basic Officer Leaders Course (BOLC). The objective of the BOLC is to
develop technically competent and confident platoon leaders, regardless of branch, who are grounded in leadership, basic
technical and tactical skill proficiency, are physically and mentally strong, and embody the warrior ethos. To achieve this
objective, BOLC capitalizes on experience-based training, logically structured to build upon and reinforce previous lessons. The BOLC occurs in two phases. BOLC A is pre-commissioning training conducted by the traditional pre-commissioning sources. It provides the foundation of common core skills, knowledge, and attitudes desired of all newly commissioned lieutenants. BOLC B is a combination of common block instruction targeting small-unit leaders skills focusing on
warfighting and the warrior ethos, and branch specific technical and tactical training conducted at branch school locations.
The BOLC Direct Commissioned Officer Course is designed to provide direct commission officers without BOLC A precommissioning training the necessary skills to succeed at BOLC B. Branch specific graduation requirements are established by branch proponents. Officers must be individually assessed and meet their respective branch occupational physical
demands identified in DA Pam 611–21 to graduate BOLC.
(3) Captains’ Officer Education System. The branch Captain Career Course (CCC) prepares company grade officers
to command Soldiers at the company, troop, or battery level, and to serve as staff officers at battalion and brigade levels.
RA and RC officers incur a 1-year active duty service obligation (ADSO) for attendance at a branch CCC upon completion
or termination of the course. Officers attend CCC following selection for promotion to the grade of captain, normally
before company-level command. Select captains who have demonstrated superior performance in their basic branches may
be selected to receive this training at other than their branch schools (for example, a field artillery officer might attend the
CCC for armor officers.) This cross training benefits officers of both branches. Officers seeking accession into civil affairs,
psychological operations, and special forces (SF) will attend the Special Operations Center of Excellence CCC. The captains’ PME centers on the technical, tactical, and leadership competencies needed for success in follow-on assignments.
CCC is a prerequisite for promotion to major for RC officers.
(4) Intermediate level education. The intermediate level education (ILE) is the Army’s formal education program for
majors. It is a tailored resident education program designed to prepare new field grade officers for their next 10 years of
service. It produces field grade officers with a warrior ethos and joint, expeditionary mindset, who are grounded in warfighting doctrine, and who have the technical, tactical, and leadership competencies to be successful at more senior levels
in their respective branch or FA. ILE consists of a Common Core Course phase of operational instruction offered to all
officers, and a tailored education phase (qualification course) tied to the technical requirements of the officer’s branch or
FA. The RC also has a tailored distributed learning ILE program. ILE Common Core Course is a prerequisite for promotion
to lieutenant colonel in the RC.
(5) Senior Service College. The Senior Service College (SSC) provides senior level PME and leader development
training. The Army’s SSC, the U.S. Army War College, prepares military, civilian, and international leaders to assume
strategic leadership responsibilities in military or national security organizations. It educates students about employment
of the U.S. Army as part of a unified, joint, or multinational force in support of the national military strategy, requires
research into operational and strategic issues, and conducts outreach programs that benefit the nation.
b. Warrant officers.
(1) Background. The goal of warrant officer training and education within the Officer Education System is to produce
highly specialized expert officers, leaders, and trainers who are fully competent in technical, tactical, and leadership skills;
creative problem solvers able to function in highly complex and dynamic environments; and proficient operators, maintainers, administrators, and managers of the Army’s equipment, support activities, and technical systems. Warrant officer
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

7

leader development is a continuous lifelong learning process beginning with pre-appointment training and education. The
Officer Education System prepares warrant officers to successfully perform in increasing levels of responsibility throughout an entire career. The Officer Education System provides the pre-appointment, branch MOS-specific, and leader development training needed to produce technically and tactically competent warrant officer leaders for assignment to platoon,
detachment, company, battalion, and higher level organizations.
(2) Common core. Common core is the combination of common military tasks, common leader, and directed or mandated tasks for specific courses, grade levels, or organizational levels regardless of branch or career management field or
program. It comprises the tasks all officers are expected to perform successfully regardless of branch. Common core instruction begins at pre-appointment and continues at each educational level. The instruction is progressive and sequential
and builds upon the skills and knowledge acquired through previous training and operational assignments.
(3) Pre-appointment training. Pre-appointment training qualifies individuals to serve as officers. The purposes of preappointment training are to educate and train candidates, assess their readiness and potential for appointment to warrant
officer, and prepare them for progressive and continuing development. All RA warrant officer candidates must attend the
resident Warrant Officer Candidate School (WOCS) at Fort Rucker, AL. The ARNG and USAR warrant officer candidates
may attend WOCS at either Fort Rucker or one of the RC regional training institute’s WOCS. The WOCS graduates are
appointed to warrant officer one (WO1). The appointment is contingent upon certification by the MOS proponents that the
warrant officer is technically and tactically qualified to serve in the authorized warrant officer MOS.
(4) Warrant Officer Basic Course. The Warrant Officer Basic Courses (WOBCs) are branch specific qualification
courses that ensure newly appointed warrant officers receive the MOS-specific training and technical certification needed
to perform in the MOS at the platoon through brigade levels. Training is performance oriented and focuses on technical
skills, leadership, effective communication, unit training, maintenance operations, security, property accountability, tactics, and development of subordinates. Newly appointed warrant officers who attend WOBC will incur a 6-year ADSO
upon graduation. This ADSO does not apply to warrant officers who already hold a warrant officer MOS or reclassified to
another MOS. Warrant officers who attend Army directed professional development courses, including Warrant Officer
Advanced Course (WOAC), Warrant Officer Intermediate Level Education (WOILE), and Warrant Officer Senior Service
Education (WOSSE), do not incur a service obligation. Branch specific graduation requirements are established by branch
proponents. Warrant officers must be individually assessed and meet their respective branch occupational physical demands identified in DA Pam 611–21 to graduate BOLC and WOBC.
(5) Warrant Officer Advanced Course. The WOAC prepares the officer to serve in senior positions at the CW3 level.
The WOAC includes two phases: a nonresident common core module and a resident phase, which includes a common core
module and MOS-specific module.
(6) Warrant Officer Intermediate Level Education. The warrant officer ILE is a branch immaterial resident course
which prepares for duty in chief warrant officer four (CW4) grade technician and staff officer positions at battalion and
higher levels. Some branches have developed branch specific follow-on track courses to ensure intermediate level warrant
officers receive the latest technical and functional PME within their career field. Warrant officers will not be awarded
military education level (MEL) Q until all branch-required phases are complete.
(7) Warrant Officer Senior Service Education. The WOSSE is currently the capstone course for warrant officer PME.
It is a branch immaterial resident course which provides master-level professional warrant officers with a broader Army
level perspective required for assignment to CW5 grade level positions as technical, functional, and branch systems integrators, trainers, and leaders at the highest organizational levels. Some branches have developed branch specific followon track courses to ensure intermediate level warrant officers receive the latest technical and functional PME within their
career field. Warrant officers will not be awarded MEL L until all branch-required phases are complete.

Chapter 3
Officer Personnel Management System and Career Management
3 –1. Purpose
The purpose of OPMS is to—
a. Acquire. Identify, recruit, select, and prepare individuals for service as officers in our Army.
b. Develop. Maximize officer performance and potential through training and education in accordance with AR 350–1,
as well as through assignment, self-development, and certification of officers to build agile and adaptive leaders.
c. Utilize. Assign officers with the appropriate skills, experience, and competencies to meet Army requirements and
promote continued professional development.
d. Sustain. Retain officers with the appropriate skills, experience, competencies, and manner of performance to meet
Army requirements and promote continued professional development.

8

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

e. Promote. Identify and advance officers with the appropriate skills, experience, competencies, manner of performance, and demonstrated potential to meet Army requirements.
f. Transition. Separate officers from the Army in a manner that promotes a lifetime of support to the Service.
3 –2. Factors affecting the Officer Personnel Management System
Various factors continuously influence the environment in which OPMS operates. In turn, changes in that environment
necessitate continuous adjustments and alterations of policy by the DCS, G–1. Factors that influence OPMS policy are—
a. Law. Congress passes legislation that impacts officer professional development through required changes in related
Army policy.
b. Policy. New laws often create changes in policy. The provisions of this document are in accordance with current
law and policy. Changes to those laws and policies will affect future versions of this document.
c. Budget. The size and composition of the officer corps, accessions, strength management, promotion rates and pinon-points, schooling, education programs, and permanent change of station (PCS) timing are but a few areas affected by
budget decisions and subsequent policies.
d. Officer Personnel Management System vision. The OPMS vision includes the overarching concept of growing and
developing adaptive leaders capable of employing mission command to successfully accomplish the spectrum of established and emerging missions. Adaptability is a key tenet of ADP 3–0.
e. Proponent strategy. Each branch or FA has a proponent responsible for coordinating the development of its officer
population. Proponent responsibilities are in part executed through the publication of this pamphlet. To fulfill these responsibilities the proponent must—
(1) Project future requirements for officer skills and sustain or modify elements of force structure and inventory to meet
future needs.
(2) Define the three domains of leader development—institutional, operational, and self-development—balanced between the specific requirements for their particular skill and specialty and the broader developmental requirements defined
by the respective functional category proponents and the Army.
(3) Articulate competencies required for specific branches, FAs, or area of concentration (AOC) or MOS by grade, and
provide general guidance on table of organization and equipment (TOE) or table of distribution and allowances (TDA)
positions, and educational and training opportunities that enable development of those competencies.
(4) Develop generic patterns of officer development embodied in branch and FA officer development models. These
models are used by Officer Personnel Management Directorate assignment branches to execute the proponent professional
development programs, but are not intended as prescriptions for a path to success in the Army. As proponents modify
officer skill requirements or development models to meet changing conditions, OPMS and Smartbook DA Pam 600–3 will
be modified.
f. Officer needs. The OPMS responds to the mission and requirements of the Army and attempts to balance force
structure requirements, officer professional development, and individual needs and preferences of the officer.
3 –3. Officer Personnel Management System
a. The Officer Personnel Management System. The OPMS is an evolutionary system that balances the needs of the
Army with the developmental requirements of the entire officer corps: warrant, company, and field grade. Inherently flexible, the system is designed to respond to a variety of doctrinal, proponent, commander, and individual initiatives to meet
emerging needs. Flexibility is embedded in OPMS subsystems, which are interrelated and affected by each other’s changes.
These subsystems are—
(1) Strength management. The number of officers, by grade and specialty, are defined by Army requirements, law,
budget, and policy. The combination of these factors results in the determination of the numbers of officers to access,
promote, develop, assign, and separate. Since each of these factors is dynamic, the number, grade, and branch of officers
within the inventory are also dynamic. As Army requirements for force structure change, the officer inventory will also
change and be realigned to meet the needs of the resulting force structure.
(2) Assignments. Officers are assigned to fulfill current and future Army requirements while meeting the professional
development needs of the various branches, FAs, and functional categories. These assignments are balanced with the best
interest of the officers.
(3) Professional development. Each branch, FA, or officer skill proponent defines the appropriate mix of education,
training, and experience needed by the officer corps at each grade level within the context of the overarching requirement
to develop adaptive leaders. The demands of each specialty balanced with broadening opportunities are reflected in the
branch or proponent sections in Smartbook DA Pam 600–3 at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbook-da-pam600–3. HRC must develop each officer, both active and RC, by using these models while balancing Army requirements.
To ensure the professional development of all officers, HRC operates in concert with various responsible agents to include
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

9

the individual officer; the Army and branch proponents; the DCS, G–3/5/7; commanders in the field; and the senior Army
leadership. Officer professional development is a responsibility shared by all. Life cycle development models portray the
full range of training, education, and experiences for the development of our future leaders.
(4) Evaluation. The Army officer structure is pyramidal. The apex contains very few senior grades in relation to the
wider base. Advancement to increasingly responsible positions is based on relative measures of performance and potential.
The mechanism to judge the value of an individual’s performance and potential is the OER described in detail in chapter
6. All OPMS subsystems are affected by the evaluation report. Promotion, school selection, functional designation, command and key billet selection, retention in service, and development opportunities are all based on the information contained in the OER.
(5) Centralized selection. The hub around which all the subsystems revolve is centralized selection. Strength management, professional development, and evaluation of individual contribution occur in the series of centralized DA and HRC
selection boards for retention, career status, schooling, promotion, field grade command designation, and selective early
retirement. These boards employ evaluation reports, competency guidance, and strength requirements to advance individuals to the next stage of professional development. Officers generally flow through the centralized selection subsystem by
groupings based on date of rank. Company and field grade officer groupings are termed cohort year groups. Warrant officer
groupings are called the inclusive zone of eligibility. Each board is preceded by a zone announcement that specifies the
makeup of the cohort or inclusive zone. Centralized selection perpetuates the ideals, cultural values, ethics, and professional standards of the Army by advancing and retaining only those individuals best qualified to assume positions of greater
responsibility. Centralized selection has evolved over time to account for the impact of law, policy, budget, Army and
officer needs, and proponent vision.
(6) Review process. The OPMS was designed to be reviewed periodically. At the discretion of the CSA, the DCS, G–1
and the CG, HRC will conduct a review of OPMS to determine the health of the system and to recommend changes.
b. A comprehensive system. The OPMS model is a developmental system focused more on the quality and range of
experience, rather than the specific gates or assignments required to progress.
(1) Initial entry officers gain branch technical and tactical skills to develop a warrior ethos and gain important leadership
experience in company grade assignments.
(2) Throughout an officer’s career, the model highlights windows of opportunity to gain broadening experience or
exposure. The concept of broadening is addressed in greater detail in paragraph 3–4.
(3) Voluntary transfer opportunities (via the Voluntary Transfer Incentive Program (VTIP)) between branches and FAs
and branch transfer between branches, announced and adjudicated several times a year, develop both specific and broad
functional competencies.
(4) Lifelong learning, supported by both civilian and military education, bolsters the development of joint and expeditionary competencies. Expeditionary competencies are those needed by officers in an expeditionary force—regional
knowledge, cultural awareness, foreign language, diplomacy, statesmanship, and so on.
(5) Flexible timelines enable officers to serve longer in developmental assignments, ensuring officers have adequate
time to gain skills and experience and also to support unit readiness and cohesion. However, time in developmental assignments must be balanced with the necessity to meet Army manning requirements. The functionally aligned design is
the heart of OPMS and is intended to align branches and FAs, consistent with joint doctrine, focusing on development of
agile and adaptive leaders with broader, functionally relevant competencies.
(6) Officers will be managed by categories and groups with similar functions to facilitate the development of officer
functional competencies required on the future battlefield. The design is not intended to reflect where officers serve on the
battlefield, but to align the functions and skills required. The four functional categories and associated functional groups
are—
(a) Operations. This functional category gathers maneuver branches and FAs that have similar battlefield application
or complementary roles.
(b) Operations support. This functional category gathers two currently existing branches, military intelligence and
signal, with FAs that have similar battlefield applications or complementary roles. Also included in this functional category
are the functions associated with force training, development, and education that design, build, and train the force.
(c) Force sustainment. This functional category includes an integrated Logistics Corps as well as the branches and FAs
associated with resource and Soldier support functions. A part of force sustainment but separately managed are the Army
Medical Department (AMEDD) (Medical Corps, Dental Corps, Veterinary Corps, Nurse Corps, Medical Specialist Corps,
and Medical Services Corps), Chaplain Corps, and The Judge Advocate General (TJAG).
(d) Information dominance. This functional category gathers two currently existing FAs that have similar battlefield
tasks or complementary functions along with the creation of a new branch.

10

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

3 –4. Officer development
a. Key terms. A number of terms are used when describing assignments.
(1) Branch. A branch is a grouping of officers that comprises an arm or service of the Army and is the specialty in
which all officers are commissioned or transferred, trained, and developed. Company grade officers hold a single branch
designation and may serve in repetitive and progressive assignments associated with the branch.
(2) Functional area. An FA is a grouping of officers by technical specialty or skills other than an arm, Service, or
branch that usually requires unique education, training, and experience. After functional designation, officers may serve
repetitive and progressive assignments within their FA.
(3) Command. Command is the authority that a commander in the military service lawfully exercises over subordinates
by virtue of rank or assignment. The command comprises the leadership, authority, responsibility, and accountability for
effectively using available resources and planning the employment of, organizing, directing, coordinating, and controlling
military forces to accomplish assigned missions. It includes responsibility for unit readiness, health, welfare, morale, and
discipline of assigned personnel.
(4) Key billet. A duty assignment at the lieutenant colonel or colonel rank requiring specific, highly developed skills
and experience that is deemed so critical to a unit’s mission that an officer is selected for assignment by HQDA. Key billet
officers exercise judgment and recommend actions to the commander. They principally manage resources and oversee
processes that operate in a leadership environment.
b. Branch designation. Upon commissioning, lieutenants are designated in a basic branch for entry on active duty,
training, and initial assignment. During the early years of service, professional development within the branch follows the
proponent’s life cycle model. Generally, the first 6 to 8 years of service are devoted to branch developmental assignments
and training that prepares the company grade officer for further advancement. Company grade officers may request, in
writing, a voluntary branch transfer in accordance with AR 614–100. Upon commissioning, selected lieutenants are branch
detailed to a combat arms branch for 3 or 4 years, or until their assigned units are in a reset period. Under the branch detail
program, officers attend the company grade level education at the school of the branch to which they are detailed. Company
grade officers in the 4-year detail program receive transition branch training in conjunction with their enrollment in the
captain’s level education. Detailed officers must be approved for branch transfer by their detail branch, basic branch, and
HRC (AHRC–OPD–C), in addition to meeting the requirements of AR 614–100. AR 614–100 outlines how the branch
detail program is managed and provides the branch detail periods for each branch.
c. Functional designation process. Army competitive category (ACC) groups interrelated branches and FAs into officer management categories called functional categories and functional groups. The functional designation process determines in which specialty officers will continue their development; either in their accession branch or in a different FA.
Management of officer development in functional categories recognizes the need to balance specialization of the officer
corps with the inherent requirement for officers to gain more breadth in an increasingly complex environment. Officers
have periodic opportunities after the fourth year of officer service to transfer to a different branch or FA. The process is
known as the VTIP and is managed by HRC to balance inventories with Army requirements and to leverage individual
officer preferences and demonstrated abilities. VTIP panels are conducted two to three times a year and are announced via
military personnel (MILPER) message describing procedures and specialties to be considered for cross leveling. VTIP
allows HRC to identify and target officers with critical skills early in their development, allowing them to get additional
training and experience to bring those skills to bear as quickly as possible. The VTIP balances the force across the three
functional categories. The intent of the VTIP panel is to fill requirements and provide the FAs enough time to send their
officers to school and training prior to utilization. The VTIP process ensures that the needs of the Army are met for future
field grade officer requirements in each functional category. Each functional category has its own unique characteristics
and development model for officers, which reflects the readiness requirements of the Army today and into the 21st century.
Officers in all functional categories are assigned across the Army in TOE and TDA organizations.
d. Centralized selection list. A listing of command or key billet positions by type category to be filled by officers
selected under the Centralized Command or Key Billet Selection System. Centralized selection list command positions
fall into four categories listed below.
(1) Operations. Battalion and brigade sized units, expeditionary in nature and deployable worldwide with approved
TOE. Joint organization and special mission units (SMUs) providing the fighting power available to combatant or joint
task force commanders with a primary mission to deploy to a theater of combat operations. Key general staff positions (for
example, G1, G2, G6, and G8) also exist within this subcategory.
(2) Strategic support. Battalion and brigade sized units, mainly approved TDA DA units focused on providing support
such as analysis, intelligence, communications, materials, medical, logistics, and technology to a theater.
(3) Recruiting and training. Focused on generating Soldiers into conventional and SMUs of the U.S. Army and sister
Services; typically TDA organizations that support the training of units from the Army and sister Services.

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

11

(4) Installation. Support tenant units or activities in a designated geographic area by organizing, directing, coordinating, and controlling installation support and Service activities. TDA organizations, both within the continental United
States (CONUS) and outside the continental United States (OCONUS), dedicated to supporting and protecting Army Soldiers, Civilians, and their Families; accountable for critical mission areas such as mobilization, public works, real property
management, and local civil authorities or host nation.
e. Key developmental positions. These positions are specified by branch or FA, and revised periodically. A KD position
is one that is deemed fundamental to the development of an officer’s capabilities in their core branch or FA competencies
or deemed critical by the senior Army leadership to provide experience across the Army’s strategic mission. The majority
of these positions fall within the scope of the officer’s branch or FA mission.
f. Developmental or broadening positions. All officer positions are developmental. They enhance some aspect of warfighting skills, increase their level of responsibility, develop their understanding of interoperability among Army branches,
or expose them to branch-related generating force or unified action opportunities that directly contribute to success as an
innovative and adaptive leader. Officers should view the concept of broadening as a purposeful expansion of a leader’s
capabilities and understanding provided through opportunities internal and external to the Army. Broadening is accomplished across an officer’s full career through experiences or education in different organizational cultures and environments. The intent for broadening is to develop an officer’s capability to see, work, learn, and contribute outside each one’s
own perspective or individual level of understanding for the betterment of both the individual officer and the institution.
The result of broadening is a continuum of leadership capability at direct, operational, and strategic levels, which bridges
diverse environments and organizational cultures. The broadening process will be dynamic and varies across cohorts,
grades, and branches or FAs. Opportunities will change in response to the Army’s emerging missions, evolving structure
and professional culture. Deliberate career management that carefully limits KD time to prescribed intervals, allowing
exceptions only under limited extenuating circumstances is fundamental to the concept of broadening. Broadening opportunities may vary in scope, responsibility, and developmental outcomes and typically fall in five major categories listed
below. These categories are convenient delineations but may not cover all possible opportunities. Broadening should enhance the adaptability and intellectual scope of our officers. It is not possible to foresee all the types of experience that will
develop the diverse talents required of future leaders.
(1) Functional, tactical, or institutional. Tactical broadening is an assignment that provides a developmental opportunity directly related to an officer’s branch or FA, but which provides the officer the opportunity to develop a wider range
of knowledge and skills useful in an Army specific environment or a broader joint context. Tactical broadening may include
assignments to 75th Ranger Regiment, 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment, and other SMUs. Institutional broadening assignments provide a developmental opportunity usually not directly related to an officer’s branch or FA but which
may develop a greater understanding of how the Army operates as an institution. Institutional broadening allows officers
to serve inside or outside their basic branch in critical generating force billets such as the Combat Training Centers, Mission
Command Training Program, Small Group Leader or Instructors, Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, HRC, Recruiting
Command, Army commands (ACOMs), as well as many opportunities in regionally or functionally aligned headquarters.
(2) Scholastic and civilian enterprise. An experience within a community of students, scholars, and instructors at institutes of higher learning or an experience with civilian industry where the officer can gain new perspectives and
knowledge, skills, and abilities not generally obtained from organic experiences, training, or education. Examples of scholastic broadening opportunity programs include the Joint Chiefs of Staff Intern Program, the Congressional Fellowship,
the Olmsted Scholarship, and a wide variety of advanced civilian schooling opportunities with follow-on assignment to
the U.S. Military Academy and other highly selective branch or FA positions as determined by proponents.
(3) Joint or multinational. An experience in a joint duty assignment list (JDAL) billet, or a joint opportunity. Such
experiences immerse the officer in an environment requiring routine interaction with unified action organizations and
personnel resulting in an understanding of their interaction with our Army. May also include assignments with a significant
role or interaction with partner nation military organizations at operational and strategic levels.
(4) Interagency or intergovernmental. Assignments or experiences at U.S. Government agencies outside the Department of Defense (DOD) or with partner nation governmental agencies. The focus of these opportunities will be more
politically and policy oriented.
(5) Cross-component. AC officer and warrant officer assignments in USAR and ARNG units, and USAR and ARNG
officer and warrant officer assignments in AC units are career enhancing broadening opportunities that expand an officer’s
and warrant officer’s knowledge of the total Army’s capabilities, training, and manning. Officers from the AC serving in
RC units and RC officers serving in AC units synchronize cross-component understanding, career development, and future
operations for both components.
g. Institutional education (Officer Education System). Attendance of training and education of an officer is driven by
operational demands. AR 350–1 is the primary regulation governing officer training and education. This includes resident
and nonresident instruction, on-the-job training, individual study, and when appropriate, civilian education.
12

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

h. Generalist positions. Some positions in the Army are independent of branch or FA coding and are designated as
branch or FA generalist, combat arms generalist positions, or unified action positions. Company and field grade officers
can expect to serve in these assignments at various times during their careers, regardless of their functional designation.
Officers are selected for these and other similar positions based on overall manner of performance, previous experience,
military and civilian education, and estimated potential for further service.
(1) Unified land operations require an Army officer to be proficient in a myriad of tasks between the spectrums of wide
area security and combined arms maneuver. Officers must be tolerant of ambiguity and be able to make rapid adjustments
by thinking critically and creatively. This will require an officer to be “operationally adaptable” and comfortable with
collaborative planning and decentralized execution in an ever changing environment. Personnel requirements for transitional functions will continue to evolve as teams with labels such as military transition team, special police transition team,
border team, provincial reconstruction team, modular brigade security force assistance teams, or other names, grow from
our experience with current and future operations. The invaluable experience that officers gain serving in assignments to
these challenging team positions will enhance their ability to serve in future leadership roles in the current operational
environment. The broad exposure to local leaders, government functionaries, nongovernmental agencies, and international
aid organizations will enhance an officer’s interoperability in joint environments. Officers should seek to serve in these
positions as part of their normal career progression. Service in transition team positions will not preclude officers from
further assignments to KD positions specific to their branch or FA.
(2) Army University instructor positions are critically important as developmental experiences that shape individual
career success, and effectively disseminate shared operational experience. The Army historically cycles between periods
of active conflict and intense deployed operational focus, and periods of consolidation, training, and preparation for the
future. It is critical that the Army consolidate the hard won experience of our officers who have served in operational
theaters, and disseminate that through its PME system. Positions as platform instructors, small group leaders, doctrine
writers, or other positions in the institutional Army are critical broadening opportunities for our officers that will enhance
an officer’s standing in competition for command, key billet, or senior executive-level positions.
3 –5. Company grade development
a. Branch specific development. This phase commences upon entry on active duty and generally lasts through the 10th
year of service. Officers begin their professional development at pre-commissioning or appointment, referred to as BOLC
A, followed by attending BOLC B.
(1) Basic education. The BOLC B marks the beginning of a company grade officer’s formal military professional
development training following commissioning. BOLC B prepares officers for their first unit of assignment and provides
instruction on methods for training and leading individuals, teams, squads, and platoons. Additionally, the course provides
officers with a detailed understanding of equipment, tactics, organization, and administration at the company, battery, or
troop level.
(2) Initial assignments. After officers graduate from BOLC B, branch assignment officers in Officer Personnel Management Directorate will assign the majority of officers to a branch duty position. Included in these assignments are
CONUS or overseas troop units where officers begin to develop their leadership skills. All junior officers should seek
leadership positions in troop units whenever possible. Troop leadership is the best means to become educated in Army
operations and builds a solid foundation for future service.
(3) Bachelor’s degree. Prior to promotion to captain, officers must complete their baccalaureate degree.
(4) Captains’ Officer Education System. Officers should attend their branch CCC following selection for promotion to
the grade of captain. This is the second major branch school officers attend before company-level command. Selected
captains deemed to have demonstrated superior performance in their basic branch might be selected to receive this training
at schools other than their basic branch. A field artillery officer, for example, may attend the Maneuver CCC. This cross
training benefits officers of both branches. Officers seeking accession into SF will attend the Maneuver CCC. Officers
seeking accession into the psychological operations or civil affairs branches will attend a designated CCC.
(5) Branch opportunities. All company grade officers must focus their efforts during the company grade years on mastering the basic skills of their specific branch, regardless of the FA and functional category they will later enter. Much of
the value an officer brings to a specialized FA is dependent on experience gained by leading Soldiers and mastering basic
branch skills. Leading Soldiers is the essence of leadership development at this stage of an officer’s career. Officers who
have demonstrated the potential and desire to command Soldiers fill command positions. The number of company commands within a specific branch may not afford all officers the opportunity to command at the captain level. Command
opportunities for captains are found in traditional TOE line units or TDA units in training, garrison, and headquarters
organizations.

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

13

Note. This paragraph discusses branch opportunities in general. For information unique to a particular branch, refer to that
branch’s section in the Smartbook DA Pam 600–3 at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbook-da-pam-600–3.
b. Post-initial branch development. After company grade officers have been afforded branch development opportunities, a number of options become available for continued professional development and broadening. At this time, career
managers at Officer Personnel Management Directorate assess the officer’s developmental objectives for the post-branch
development phase based on assignment patterns completed, relative manner of performance achieved, individual preferences, and Army requirements available for the next developmental stage. The types of assignments and developmental
patterns for this phase are as follows:
(1) Branch assignments. The range of further assignments to branch coded positions is a function of the Army’s requirements and officer availability. These assignments may include staff and faculty positions at Service schools, Combat
Training Center duty, or staff positions in tactical or training units. Branch assignments further develop the basic branch
skills and employ the officer’s accumulated skills, knowledge, and attitudes.
(2) Branch or functional area generalist assignments. Some company grade officers may serve in positions coded 01A
(officer generalist) or 02A (combat arms generalist). These branch or FA generalist positions do not require an officer from
a specific branch or FA but may be performed by an officer with certain experiences, manner of performance, and demonstrated potential. Such assignments include U.S. Army Recruiting Command staff and command positions, Reserve Officers’ Training Corps or U.S. Military Academy faculty and staff, and major command staff positions. Recruiting and other
challenging generalist command positions should be afforded to officers who have previously and successfully served in
a command position.
(3) Functional area specific. Officers designated into FAs should expect training and education opportunities to focus
on their areas of specialization and include progressive and repetitive assignments of increasing responsibility. The Smartbook DA Pam 600–3 outlines developmental positions of each branch and FA.
(4) Advanced civilian schooling or Performance Based Graduate School Incentive Program. Each year some officers
will be provided the opportunity to attend civilian academic institutions to obtain graduate level degrees in designated
disciplines. The final number varies based on budget, policy, and Army requirements. Advanced civilian schooling is a
requirements-based program that supports the Army Education Requirements System where specific TOE and TDA positions are identified as requiring skills provided by an advanced degree. Not all branches get advanced civilian schooling
quotas. Performance Based Graduate School Incentive Program (PB–GSIP) is an incentive program for basic branch, top
performers who are selected by their branch. AR 621–1 is the governing regulation. Career managers are the best place
for information and specifics about the method by which officers may apply for advanced civilian schooling and become
competitive for PB–GSIP.
(5) Joint, interagency, intergovernmental, and multinational training opportunities. This program provides short-term
(90 to 180 days) training for officers, providing them the skills necessary to lead the Army of the future.
(6) Training with Industry. Some branches and FAs participate in Training with Industry (TWI), where officers are
assigned to a civilian industry to observe and learn the technical and managerial aspects of that field. The total number of
training quotas varies based on budget, policy, and requirements. Officers selected for this program must be proficient in
their branch or FA, have a manner of performance that reflects a strong potential for future service, and be able to serve a
utilization tour upon completion of training. The TWI program is outlined in AR 621–1.
3 –6. Major development
This phase begins with selection for promotion to major. This is a critical period in an officer’s career life cycle that
demands an acute awareness of important HQDA centralized boards and the preparations they require. The junior field
grade years serve to develop the officer cohort in a variety of branch or FA assignments within their functional category.
a. Development. The general development goals are to complete ILE or joint professional military education (JPME)
I, and successfully complete other branch, FA, or broadening assignments prior to consideration for promotion to lieutenant
colonel. ILE provides a quality education for all field grade officers and prepares them for their next 10 years of service.
Officers must be ILE or JPME I complete to be eligible for SSC attendance. Most branches and some FAs have identified
positions as KD for majors. It should be noted that in all branches or FAs, majors’ positions that support transitional
functions, such as training teams and provincial reconstruction teams, are designated as KD positions. Positions created to
address specific emerging missions or capability are most often considered KD for the purposes of career development
and advancement.
b. Promotion. Cohort year group officers are generally considered for promotion to lieutenant colonel in their 16th
year of service as they enter the primary zone of consideration. Below-the-zone selection is possible, and normally officers
will be considered 1 year prior to their primary zone consideration.

14

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

3 –7. Lieutenant colonel development
Those selected for promotion to lieutenant colonel now begin the senior field grade years, where they make the maximum
contribution to the Army as commanders and senior staff officers. Attaining the grade of lieutenant colonel is most often
considered to be the hallmark of a successful career, although each officer defines success differently. Officers in the grade
of lieutenant colonel serve as senior leaders and managers throughout the Army providing wisdom, experience, vision, and
mentorship mastered over many years in uniform.
a. Development. The professional development goals for a lieutenant colonel are to broaden their branch, FA, and skill
proficiency at the senior levels through assignments and schooling. Most of these officers will serve in high visibility
billets in their branch, FA, or unified action positions, and a possible assignment to a cross-branch or FA developmental
position.
(1) Branch assignments. Lieutenant colonels can expect branch coded assignments to both TDA and TOE positions.
These billets can range from positions within a battalion through echelons above corps. However, the TDA structure requires the greater portion (almost 70 percent) of the senior field grade expertise and experience. Here, the officer’s development over the years is used to fulfill the doctrinal, instructional, policymaking, and planning needs of the Army. Branch
proponents have outlined developmental standards in their respective sections of the Smartbook DA Pam 600–3 at
https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbook-da-pam-600–3.
(2) Functional area assignments. OPMS recognizes the need for balanced specialization to meet the Army’s challenges
in the 21st Century. The system design allows officers to serve in repetitive assignments within an FA to gain a high degree
of expertise. FA proponents have outlined developmental standards in their respective sections in the Smartbook DA Pam
600–3.
(3) Joint duty assignments. The JDAL contains approximately 1,350 lieutenant colonel authorizations and officers will
continue to have the opportunity for assignment to joint duty positions as an integral part of their development. (See para
3–13 for additional details on the joint officer program.)
(4) Branch or functional area generalist assignments. Some officers will serve outside their branch or FA in billets
coded as branch or FA generalist. Such assignments are found throughout the Army in troop and staff organizations from
the installation to DA level.
(5) Centralized selection. A centralized board at HQDA selects a limited number of officers for command and key
billets. The lieutenant colonel centralized selection list command and key billet contains both TOE and TDA positions.
The command board meets annually to select commanders from the eligible cohort year groups. Command opportunity
varies based on force structure and the command categories for which an officer competes. On average, lieutenant colonels
serve in their command tours during their 18th through 20th years of service. Once the board makes its selections and
conducts a preliminary slating for category, Officer Personnel Management Directorate conducts a slating process. HRC
coordinates this slating process with major ACOMs; and the CSA reviews and approves the slate. The Army Acquisition
Corps conducts a similar HQDA-level board to select lieutenant colonel commanders and product managers. Only certified
Army Acquisition Corps officers can compete for these positions.
(6) Senior Service College. The annual SSC MEL selection board reviews the files of lieutenant colonels. The SSC is
the final major military educational program available to prepare officers for the positions of greatest responsibility in the
DOD. Officers must be ILE or JPME I qualified to be eligible for SSC attendance consideration. Resident seats include
attendance at the U.S. Army War College, the Advanced Strategic Leadership Studies Program within the School of Advanced Military Studies at Fort Leavenworth, the Eisenhower School for National Security, the National War College, the
College of International Security Affairs, the Joint Advanced Warfighting School, Inter-American Defense College, other
sister Service war colleges, resident fellowships at governmental agencies and academic institutions, and approved foreign
SSCs. Foreign SSC does not award JPME II. The SSC selection board examines the eligible population and produces an
order of merit list. Officers are activated for resident attendance while the remainder are contacted by their branch or FA
managers and encouraged to apply for the active duty seats in the U.S. Army War College Distance Education Course.
U.S. Army War College resident and distance education programs award Master of Strategic Studies degrees. Only the
resident SSC courses and U.S. Army War College distance education program award SSC completion MEL 1. The Army
does not recognize other Service War College distant education programs as SSC or MEL 1 equivalent. Resident course
graduates are also awarded JPME II. Officers completing fellowship programs receive a certificate of graduation from the
U.S Army War College designating MEL SSC complete but are not awarded a master’s degree or JPME II. SSC graduates
are assigned to organizations based on guidance from the CSA. Tours following graduation are to the Army staff, Joint
Chiefs of Staff, Secretary of Defense, ACOMs, Army service component commands (ASCCs), direct reporting units
(DRUs), and combatant command staffs in branch, FA, branch or FA generalist, or joint coded positions.
(7) Former battalion commander assignments. Lieutenant colonels completing battalion command are assigned to positions designated as requiring the skills of former battalion commanders. These post-command assignments may be to

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

15

branch, branch or FA generalist assignments, or joint coded positions. Emphasis is placed on joint duty assignments for
those officers without a joint qualifying tour.
b. Promotion. Cohort year group officers are normally considered for promotion to colonel in the primary zone in their
21st year of service. Below-the-zone selection is possible, and normally officers will be considered 1 year prior to their
primary zone consideration.
3 –8. Colonel development
Those officers selected for promotion to colonel continue their senior field grade phase that concludes with their separation
or retirement from active duty or selection for promotion to brigadier general. Attaining the grade of colonel is realized by
a select few and truly constitutes the elite of the officer corps. As colonels, their maximum contribution to the Army is
made as commanders and senior staff officers.
a. Development. The general professional development goals for colonels are to further enhance branch or FA skill
proficiency through additional senior level assignments and schooling.
(1) Branch assignments. Many colonels can expect to receive assignments to branch coded positions at the brigade,
division, corps, and echelons above corps in the TOE environment. TDA organizations throughout the Army also need the
expertise of senior field grade officers. Almost 70 percent of the colonel authorizations are in the TDA structure.
(2) Functional area assignments. Under OPMS, FA officers work predominantly in their specialties after selection for
promotion to major. Having risen above their peers at the grade of major and lieutenant colonel, those promoted to colonel
are truly the world class specialists in their respective fields. These officers will serve primarily in senior managerial billets
across the Army coded for their specialty.
(3) Joint duty assignment. The JDAL contains a number of colonel billets in branch and FA positions. Officers who
did not serve as majors or lieutenant colonels in a JDAL billet should continue to seek joint development. Colonels who
completed the requirements for joint qualified officer designation, may serve second and third tours in positions coded
“Joint Critical.” (For more information, see para 3–13, which details the joint duty program.)
(4) Senior Service College. The annual SSC selection board reviews the files of colonels until their 23rd year of service.
Officers must be JPME I qualified to be eligible for SSC attendance consideration. The majority of colonels will either
attend the resident training or be awarded MEL SSC certification from the U.S. Army War College Distance Education
Course during the latter 3 years of their eligibility window.
(5) Centralized command selection. Some officers are selected for command at the colonel level. Most positions are
branch coded and branch officers compete within designated categories for these positions. An HQDA-level board also
selects Army Acquisition Corps program managers. Officers are eligible for colonel command selection until their 26th
year of service. The HQDA command boards meet annually to select promotable lieutenant colonels and serving colonels
for assignment to command positions during the following fiscal year (FY). The opportunity varies by branch and ranges
from 16 percent to 50 percent. The command board prepares a slate to category and an initial slate to units. The final slate
to unit is prepared by Officer Personnel Management Directorate. Slates are approved by the CSA and are coordinated
with the ACOMs, ASCCs, and DRUs. The majority of officers in a cohort year group do not command; they make their
maximum contribution to the Army in other important branch or FA senior staff assignments.
(6) Former brigade commander assignments. Colonels completing brigade command are assigned to positions designated by the CSA, as requiring the skills of former commanders. These post-command assignments may be to branch,
branch or FA generalist assignments, or joint coded positions. Emphasis is placed on joint duty assignments for those
officers without a joint qualifying tour.
b. Promotion. Promotion to general officer is managed separately and is beyond the scope of this pamphlet.
3 –9. Warrant officer definitions
The Army warrant officer is a technical expert, combat leader, trainer, and advisor. Through progressive levels of expertise
in assignments, training, and education, the warrant officer administers, manages, maintains, operates, and integrates Army
systems and equipment across unified land operations. Warrant officers are innovative integrators of emerging technologies, dynamic teachers, confident warfighters, and developers of specialized teams of Soldiers. They support a wide range
of Army missions throughout their career. Warrant officers in the Army are accessed with specific levels of technical
ability. They refine their technical expertise and develop their leadership and management skills through tiered progressive
assignment and education. The following are specific characteristics and responsibilities of the separate, successive warrant
officer grades—
a. Warrant officer one and chief warrant officer two. A WO1 is an officer appointed by warrant with the requisite
authority pursuant to assignment level and position given by the President of the United States. CW2s and above are
commissioned officers with the requisite authority pursuant to assignment level and position as given by the President of
the United States. WO1’s and CW2’s primary focus is becoming proficient and working on those systems linked directly
16

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

to their AOC or MOS. As they become experts on the systems they operate and maintain, their focus migrates to integrating
their systems with other branch systems.
b. Chief warrant officer three. CW3s are advanced level technical and tactical experts who perform the primary duties
of technical leader, trainer, operator, manager, maintainer, sustainer, integrator, and advisor. They also perform any other
branch-related duties assigned to them. As they become more senior, their focus becomes integrating branch systems into
larger Army systems.
c. Chief warrant officer four. CW4s are senior level technical and tactical experts who perform the duties of technical
leader, manager, maintainer, sustainer, integrator, and advisor and serve in a wide variety of branch level positions. As
they become more senior they focus on integrating branch and Army systems into joint and national-level systems.
d. Chief warrant officer five. CW5s are master-level technical and tactical experts who perform the primary duties of
technical leader, manager, integrator, and advisor. They are the senior technical expert in their branch and serve at brigade
and higher levels.
3 –10. Warrant officer career patterns
The development of the professional attributes and technical capabilities of Army warrant officers to meet the needs of the
Army is accomplished through proponent-designed PDMs for each AOC or MOS. These PDMs describe schooling, operational assignments, and self-development goals for warrant officers in each grade. PDMs are based on Army requirements,
indicating the numbers and types of warrant officers to be accessed, retained, promoted, schooled, and assigned by AOC
or MOS. Proponents monitor the Army documents pertinent to their AOCs or MOSs since any change to the force structure
may require a change to the warrant officer inventory. The size of the warrant officer inventory is limited by various
factors. As requirements change, strength and professional development goals of each career field AOC or MOS are
aligned accordingly. Warrant officers are accessed into a specific AOC or MOS and can normally expect to spend their
entire career in that field. Branch, FA, and AOC or MOS are defined in the glossary, but these terms as they pertain to
warrant officers have different connotations. Branches are the officially designated categories within the Service that separate personnel and functions. Warrant officers are appointed in the U.S. Army at large but contribute directly to the success
and missions of the specific branches. Like commissioned officers, warrant officers wear the insignia of the branches they
support on the Army Service uniform. Branch proponents play a significant role in the management of warrant officers
within the functional categories, development of life cycle models, and provision of proponent based training for warrant
officers. FAs for warrant officers are groupings of AOC or MOSs within branches. Examples are electronic maintenance
and ammunition AOC or MOSs that are a part of the ordnance branch but are grouped in a separate FA within the ordnance
branch. An AOC or MOS is an assigned specialty that most warrant officers hold, with variations, for their entire career.
Some AOCs and MOSs, notably in aviation, ordnance, and signal branches, merge at the grades of CW3 through CW5.
The list of specialties with general description of duties by grade is contained in DA Pam 611 –21. Not all assignments
within a career will directly relate to the warrant officer’s FA, branch, or AOC or MOS. Some warrant officer positions
are AOC or MOS immaterial but FA or branch specific; that is, any qualified warrant officer within a specific branch FA
(aviation, artillery, ordnance, and so forth) may be assigned to the position. Others are designated AOC or MOS as well
as FA or branch immaterial; that is, any qualified warrant officer, regardless of AOC or MOS and FA or branch, may be
assigned to the position. Some positions in leader development, professional development, personnel management, training, and training development require the assignment of the best qualified warrant officer, regardless of AOC or MOS or
FA or branch.
3 –11. Warrant officer development
Junior warrant officers’ (WO1s and CW2s) main developmental focus is on their primary military occupational specialty
(PMOS) or AOC. As they gain more experience and training, their focus and expertise shifts from their PMOS or AOC to
integrating other systems within their branch or FA to Army, joint, and national-level systems. A generic PDM consists of
the four primary levels of warrant officer utilization. The Smartbook DA Pam 600–3 at
https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbook-da-pam-600–3 details PDMs by FA branch and AOC or MOS.
a. Entry level. Warrant officers are accessed according to the needs of the Army. Once accepted, the applicant must
attend WOCS, conducted by the Warrant Officer Career College at Fort Rucker, AL, or a two-phased regional training
institute run by state ARNG. SF warrant officers (180A) will attend their candidate school at Fort Bragg, NC. The WOCS
and regional training institutes test the mental, emotional, and physical stamina of candidates to determine their acceptability into the warrant officer corps. The course is focused on common, foundational material and provides the skills,
knowledge, and behaviors required of all warrant officers, regardless of specialty. Upon course completion, the candidates
are appointed to the grade of WO1 but are not yet AOC or MOS-qualified.
b. Warrant officer one and chief warrant officer two. After graduating from WOCS, the new WO1 must attend a
WOBC conducted by their proponent school. WOBC provides functional training in the applicable AOC or MOS and
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

17

reinforces the leadership training provided in WOCS. Upon successful completion of WOBC, the warrant officer is
awarded an AOC or MOS and given an initial operational assignment. Operational assignments continue for the next
several years. Throughout this period, warrant officers should continue their self-development, to include the pursuit of
civilian education goals. The civilian education goal at this career point is an associate degree or equivalent in a discipline
related to their AOC or MOS prior to eligibility for selection to CW3. RA technical services warrant officers, all ARNG
warrant officers, and all USAR warrant officers are eligible to attend WOAC after promotion to CW2 and meeting all
branch specific prerequisites. These warrant officers are expected to complete WOAC prior to promotion to CW3. RA
aviation warrant officers are eligible to attend WOAC after selection for promotion to CW3 and meeting all branch specific
prerequisites. RA aviation warrant officers are expected to complete WOAC within 2 years after selection for promotion
to CW3.
c. Chief warrant officer three and chief warrant officer four. At this point, warrant officers should actively pursue the
next civilian education goal, a baccalaureate degree in a discipline related to their AOC or MOS, prior to eligibility for
selection to CW4. WOILE is attended by ARNG and USAR CW3s, RA technical services CW3s, and RA aviation branch
CW3 (promotable (P)) and CW4s who are WOAC graduates. Warrant officers must have a minimum of 12 months between
completion of WOAC and start of WOILE Phase II. RA technical services warrant officers and all ARNG and USAR
warrant officers are expected to complete WOILE prior to promotion to CW4. RA aviation warrant officers are expected
to complete WOILE within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW4. When specified by their respective branch,
warrant officers are required to attend additional branch specific ILE phases. Warrant officers will complete WOILE
phases in the order prescribed by their branch. Branch specific ILE phases ensure intermediate level warrant officers receive the latest technical or functional PME within their career field. Some proponents may provide follow-on functional
training at this point.
d. Chief warrant officer five. WOSSE is attended by ARNG and USAR CW4s, RA technical services CW4s, and RA
aviation branch CW4 (P) and CW5s who are WOILE or equivalent graduates. Warrant officers must have a minimum of
12 months between completion of WOILE and start of WOSSE Phase II. RA technical services warrant officers and all
ARNG and USAR warrant officers are expected to complete WOSSE prior to promotion to CW5. RA aviation warrant
officers are expected to complete WOSSE within 2 years after selection for promotion to CW5. Again, proponent schools
may provide a follow-on portion of this course. Upon completion of the WOSSE and promotion to CW5, the warrant
officer will serve the remainder of his or her career in positions designated for that grade.
3 –12. Introduction to officer skills
A skill identifier (SI) identifies specific skills that are required to perform the duties of a particular position and are not
related to any one branch, FA, or career field. There are over 250 skills in the current DA Pam 611 –21, many of which
require special schooling, training, and experiences in which qualification is maintained.
3 –13. Joint officer professional development
a. Joint Qualification System. Statutory changes in PL 109–364 resulted in the establishment of different levels of joint
qualification as well as criteria for qualification at each level. Information on joint officer management is found in DODI
1300.19. The Joint Qualification System acknowledges both designated joint billets as well as experience-based joint duty
assignments in contributing to the development of joint qualified officers. These assignments with the necessary JPME
culminate with an officer being identified as a fully joint qualified officer and the receipt of the 3L (joint qualified officer)
identifier.
b. Standard joint duty assignments.
(1) The JDAL is a consolidated list of standard joint duty assignments (S-JDAs) approved for joint credit by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management Policy. The JDAL has approximately 3,916 billets for Army majors
through colonels. An S–JDA is a designated position where an officer gains significant experience in joint matters. The
preponderance of an officer’s duties involves producing or promulgating National Military Strategy, joint doctrine and
policy, strategic and contingency planning, and command and control of combat operations under a unified command.
Serving in an S–JDA affords an officer the opportunity to fulfill the necessary joint experience criteria on the path to
becoming a joint qualified officer.
(2) The provisions of Title 10, United States Code (10 USC) specify that officers on the ADL may not be appointed to
the grade of brigadier general unless they have completed a full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment and have been
selected for the additional SI of 3L (joint qualified officer). The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management
Policy may waive the joint duty assignment requirement, the joint qualified officer requirement, or both on a case-by-case
basis for the following reasons: for scientific or technical qualifications for which joint duty assignment positions do not
exist, for officers serving in professional specialties, for officers serving in a joint duty assignment for at least 12 months

18

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

that began before 1 January 1987, for officers serving in a joint duty assignment at least 180 days on the date the board
convenes, and for the “good of the Service.”
c. Joint duty credit. The statutory tour length for most S-JDAs is 24 months to the day for field grade officers and for
general officers. After completing a full tour of duty in a S–JDA, officers will be awarded the 3A (joint duty qualified) SI.
An officer begins to accrue joint duty credit upon assignment to an S–JDA billet and stops accruing joint duty credit on
departure.
d. Experience-based joint duty assignment. An experience-based joint duty assignment may include non-JDAL assignments and experiences that demonstrate an officer’s mastery of knowledge, skills, and abilities in joint matters. Officers
may gain experience points towards achieving joint qualified officer status by having their non-JDAL assignments validated by a Joint Qualification System experience panel. These experiences may be shorter in duration; therefore, they may
be aggregated to achieve the equivalent of a full joint tour of duty in an S–JDA. Officers may submit their request for
experience points through a self-nomination process in coordination with their HRC assignment officer and the HRC Joint
Policy Section.
e. Joint qualified officers. Joint qualified officers are educated and experienced in the employment, deployment, and
support of unified and multinational forces to achieve national security objectives. Joint qualified officers provide continuity for joint matters that are critical to strategic and operational planning and serve within the joint arena and their
Service. Field grade officers eligible for the joint qualified officer designation must meet the highest standards of performance, complete both Phase I and II of a JPME program, and successfully complete a full tour of duty in an S–JDA or
have the necessary points from experience-based joint duty assignments. Officers approved by the Secretary of Defense
will be awarded the 3L (joint qualified officer) SI.
f. Joint professional military education. The Army Officer Education System is in compliance with CJCSI 1800.01E.
The requirement for joint education stems from the Goldwater-Nichols Act. The Goldwater-Nichols Act makes the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff the principal official to assist the Secretary of Defense in JPME matters, including the joint
curricula at Service schools. Further, as prescribed in 10 USC 663, the Secretary of Defense, with advice and assistance
from Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, periodically reviews and revises the curricula of joint education programs. Intermediate and senior staff college Army institutions are accredited by the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff JPME programs.
Graduates meet the requirements for JPME.
(1) The CJCSI 1800.01E defines Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff objectives and policies regarding the Army educational
institutions that comprise the officer PME and JPME systems. The CJCSI 1800.01E also identifies the fundamental responsibilities of the major military educational participants in achieving those objectives. The Army provides officer PME
and JPME to eligible Armed Forces officers, international officers, eligible Federal Government civilians and other approved students. The Army operates its officer PME system primarily to develop officers with expertise and knowledge
appropriate to their grade, branch, and occupational specialty. Incorporated throughout PME, officers receive JPME from
pre-commissioning through general or flag officer rank.
(2) JPME is a Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff-approved body of objectives, outcomes, policies, procedures, and standards supporting the educational requirements for joint officer management. The JPME is embedded in Army programs of
instructions and, in concert with PME, produces desired outcomes in support of the Joint Officer Management System.
The JPME is a three-phase joint education program taught in the Command and General Staff School (Fort Leavenworth,
KS), the U.S. Army War College, other Service intermediate or senior level colleges, the Joint Forces Staff College, and
at the National Defense University for the capstone course.
(3) The Army operates the officer PME system primarily to develop officers with expertise and knowledge appropriate
to their grade, branch, and occupational specialty. Embedded within the PME system, however, is a program of JPME
overseen by the Joint Staff and designed to fulfill the educational requirements for joint officer management as mandated
by the Goldwater-Nichols Act. Incorporated throughout Army PME, officers receive JPME from pre-commissioning
through general or flag officer. Army PME is structured in five military educational levels to support five significant phases
in an officer’s career.
(a) Pre-commissioning. Military education received at institutions and through programs producing commissioned officers upon graduation.
(b) Primary. Education typically received at grades O1 through O3.
(c) Intermediate. Education typically received at grade O4.
(d) Senior. Education typically received at grades O5 or O6.
(e) General or flag officer. Education received as a general or flag officer.
(4) All Army branch and FA officers will complete pre-commissioning, primary, and intermediate (JPME I) education.
Award of JPME credit is dependent on completion of education appropriate to the grade, branch, and FA.

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

19

(a) Joint professional military education I. The JPME I is incorporated into the curricula of intermediate and senior
level military service JPME I schools and other appropriate educational programs that meet JPME I criteria and are accredited by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. JPME I is integrated into the ILE curricula at the Command and
General Staff College and all other Service intermediate level colleges. Other programs, as approved by the Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, may satisfy the JPME I requirement.
(b) Joint professional military education II. The JPME II is that portion of the Program for Joint Education that complements JPME I. The JPME II is taught at the Joint Forces Staff College to both intermediate and senior level students.
Field grade officers must complete JPME I to be eligible to attend JPME II. Under exceptional conditions, the Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff may approve a direct-entry waiver to permit an officer to complete JPME II without having
completed JPME I. The JPME II is integrated, along with JPME I, into the curricula at all senior level colleges to include
the U.S. Army War College.
(5) The Army must ensure that the following requirements are met by officers who graduate from each of the National
Defense University schools (for example, the National War College, the Eisenhower School for National Security and
Resource Strategy, or the Joint Forces Staff College) for each FY:
(a) All joint qualified officers must be assigned to a joint duty assignment as their next duty assignment following
graduation, unless waived on a case-by-case basis by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management Policy.
(b) More than 50 percent (defined as 50 percent plus one) of all non-joint qualified officer graduates from each of those
schools must be assigned to a joint duty assignment as their next duty assignment following graduation.
(c) One half of the officers subject to that requirement (for each school) may be assigned to a joint duty assignment as
their second duty assignment following graduation.
(d) The Army shall coordinate with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to document compliance.
3 –14. Assignment process and considerations
The life cycle of a cohort year group spans 30 years of service. Some officers from a cohort may attain general officer
status and be retained in service beyond that point. Some warrant officers may attain the rank of CW5 and also serve up
to 30 years of WOS. The assignment process throughout an officer’s career is based on several factors and considerations.
The environmental factors in which the Army operates can affect the assignments an officer may receive. The assignment
process has these elements—
a. Army requirements. Army requirements prioritize the selection of an officer for assignment. Army requirements are
those positions that must be filled by officers to accomplish our wartime and peacetime missions. When an officer leaves
a position, the losing agency generates a requisition for a replacement. Army requirements for officers are specified on the
various TOE and TDA structures. Grade, branch, FA, skill, and special remarks are documented for each position within
The Army Authorization Documents System, which is maintained by the DCS, G–3/5/7. Annually, the Army projects
positions to be filled and places officers on PCS orders to occupy the vacancies. Within the Officer Personnel Management
Directorate, the requisition cycles span 6 months, and the assignment branches determine which officers meet the position
requirements and are available for the assignment.
b. Availability for assignment. Officers are considered available for assignment when they complete the required tour
length as specified in AR 614–100 for CONUS and OCONUS locations. DOD and Army policies for tour length are
changed based on a variety of external factors, to include budget limitations. Force stabilization is an important factor in
future assignment decisions.
c. Professional development needs. Professional development in the officer’s designated branch, FA, or AOC or MOS
is important to the career manager; however, force stabilization will be an equally important consideration. Each branch
and FA has a life cycle development model. The officer’s career needs are examined in light of these models to ensure the
next assignment is progressive, sequential, and achieves the professional development goal for that grade.
d. Other assignment considerations. Besides Army requirements, availability, and professional development, the assignment managers scrutinize other considerations in arriving at an appropriate assignment.
(1) Preference. Officers should frequently update their preference statement for location, type of assignments, personal
data, professional development goals, and education and training needs. Career managers may not be able to satisfy all
preferences because of dynamic requirements, but they do attempt to satisfy as many as possible.
(2) Training and education. Whenever possible, career managers provide schooling en route to the officer’s next assignment to meet the special requirements of the position. Civilian educational goals that are specific requirements of
positions or professional development will also be considered during the assignment process.
(3) Personal and compassionate factors. Personal crises occur in every officer’s career. The Officer Personnel Management Directorate career managers attempt to assist in such circumstances by adjusting the assignment. However, officers should apprise their career manager of such personal or compassionate considerations at the time they occur and not
wait until an assignment action is pending. In some cases, formal requests for compassionate deferment from assignment
20

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

or request for reassignment are needed in accordance with AR 614–100. Officers should coordinate with local Soldier
support activity for processing such documents. Officers with dependents having special needs should enroll in the Exceptional Family Member Program.
(4) Overseas equity. Overseas equity must be a consideration when selecting officers for assignments. With the Army
serving in a variety of overseas locations, the equitable distribution of OCONUS and unaccompanied tours among all
officers is a morale concern as well as a developmental experience in many branches and FAs. Overseas tours broaden the
professionalism of the officer corps, and career managers consider this element of tour equity in each assignment action.
3 –15. Individual career management
The OPMS provides leader and technical training for company grade, field grade, and warrant officers. Negotiating through
this multitude of possibilities to meet the needs of the Army and the important needs of the individual is the result of
interaction among the individual officer, the commander, the proponent, and the Officer Personnel Management Directorate career manager. Each has an important part to play in the professional development of not only individual officers,
but of the officer corps as a whole.
a. The individual. In many respects, officers are ultimately their own career managers. While Army requirements dictate the final outcome of all development actions, in every case the officer must participate in such decisions. The key is
to be involved in professional development by making informed and logical decisions and acting on them. One important
element of an officer’s involvement is the accurate reflection of capabilities in the official personnel management files
maintained by HQDA.
(1) The Army Military Human Resource Record, the DA Form 4037 (Officer Record Brief), and the career management
individual file contain the data from which important professional development decisions are made for selection, advancement, assignment, and retention. Officers should review, update, and maintain these records throughout their careers. Officers should also request periodic advice and counseling from commanders, supervisors, senior officers, and HRC career
managers to remain informed of career opportunities and to assess progress achieving career goals.
(2) To facilitate individual career management, each officer should maintain a current 5-year plan that, at a minimum,
depicts operational and broadening assignment goals, desired PME courses and timelines, and key personal or family
milestones so that when the time comes to discuss assignments with branch managers or raters and senior raters, offices
are prepared, informed, and can contribute to the career management process. In addition, officers can employ the Army
Career Tracker to view career development opportunities and career maps, in an effort to simplify the career management
process and better empower the individual officer.
b. The commander. Commanders play a critical part in development by understanding the roles of all their officers,
their education and development needs, and incorporating them into a unit officer professional development process. All
officers look to their rater, senior rater, and mentors for advice and career counseling. Some counseling is official, such as
the preparation and submission of the OER and DA Form 67–10–1A (Officer Evaluation Report Support Form). Other
forms of counseling are often unofficial and relate to career patterns, advice about assignments, and duty positions. Regardless of the type of counseling, commanders should be factually informed before rendering advice. This is especially
important given the changes in manning guidance, career progression, attitude, and culture over the course of a rater’s or
senior rater’s career. Experiences that raters and senior raters had as junior and mid-grade officers will not always replicate
circumstances and experiences their subordinates face at similar points in their career timeline. In some cases, providing
uninformed guidance based on “how things used to be” is as detrimental to a subordinate’s career as providing no guidance
at all. To that end, DA Pam 600–3 and the Smartbook DA Pam 600–3 contain many of the professional development facts
that commanders need to give wise counsel. Commanders should mentor their junior officers on the timing of PME attendance command application windows.
c. The proponents. Proponents design life cycle development models for their branches, FAs, and AOC or MOS and
monitor the overall professional development of officer populations. Logical and realistic career patterns, qualifying objectives, and an accurate understanding of attrition and promotion flows are vital ingredients in each branch or FA. Leader
development action plans and life cycle development models should be constructed to meet overall Army requirements as
well as branch, FA, and functional category objectives. Constant contact with the officer population and the Officer Personnel Management Directorate assignment branches should be sustained to communicate goals and objectives of the
branch and FA.
d. Officer Personnel Management Directorate career managers. Assignment and career managers at HRC, Officer
Personnel Management Directorate are responsible for fulfilling current and future Army requirements while meeting the
professional development needs of the various branches, FAs, and functional categories. Additionally, they balance the
best interests of the individual officers against the Army requirements. Career managers can provide candid, realistic advice to officers about their developmental needs. As the executors of Army and proponent programs, they operate within

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

21

the existing policy and manning guidance, budget, and legal framework to make decisions concerning assignments, schooling, manner of performance, and subjective evaluations of competitiveness for selection and retention. All officers should
communicate frequently with their career managers to receive guidance and advice on professional development.

Chapter 4
Officer Education
4 –1. Scope
a. Training and education requirements. Common training requirements apply to all officers WO1 through O6, and
specify the skills, knowledge, and attitudes required of every officer. Other training and education requirements for branch,
FA, or skill codes apply to officers in a particular specialty.
b. Training and education methods. Officer education occurs in institutional settings, in operational assignments, and
through self-development. Institutional training represents the resident training an officer receives in military or civilian
institutions. Self-development encompasses nonresident schooling including individual study, distributive learning, research, professional reading, practice, and self-assessment.
4 –2. The Officer Education System
a. Strategic objective. The strategic objective of the Officer Education System is to provide an education and training
system operationally relevant to the current environment, but structured to support the future environment by producing
more capable, adaptable, and confident leaders through continuous investment in personal growth and professional development throughout their careers. To achieve this objective, the Army has embraced an experiential and competency based
education and training model in its education system. This model integrates current technological capabilities to rapidly
advance learning in both individual and collective training requirements while providing Army leaders the right training
and education in the right medium, at the right time and place for success in their next assignment. This model supports
the Army’s service culture and warrior ethos, and produces leaders who can resolve dilemmas under stress, make decisions,
and lead formations. The institutional side of the Army is a series of leadership laboratories focused on learning, growing,
achieving competency, and getting better training into units.
b. Officer Education System goal. The goal of the Officer Education System is to produce a corps of leaders who are
fully competent in technical, tactical, and leadership skills, knowledge, and experience; understand how the Army runs;
are prepared to operate in a unified action environment; can demonstrate confidence, integrity, critical judgment, and
responsibility; operate in an environment of complexity, ambiguity, and rapid change; build effective teams amid organizational and technological change; and adapt to and solve problems creatively. The products of this system are officers
who are highly specialized experts, trainers, and leaders; fully competent in technical, tactical, and leadership skills; creative problem solvers able to function in highly complex and dynamic environments; and proficient operators, maintainers,
administrators, and managers of Army equipment, support activities, and technical systems. Officer leader development is
a continuous process that begins with pre-commissioning or pre-appointment training and education.
c. Officer Education System as part of professional military education. The Officer Education System is a sequence of
the PME for professionals in subjects that enhance knowledge of the science and art of war. The PME is a progressive
education system that prepares leaders for increased responsibilities and successful performance at the next higher level
by developing the key knowledge, skills, and attributes they require to operate successfully at that level in any environment.
PME is linked to promotions, future assignments, and career management models for all officers.
4 –3. Current paths to officer education
Current force educational models will be followed in parallel with future force models. Currently, officers enter active
duty with diverse educational backgrounds and civilian experience. This diversity is amplified by the great variety of
service experiences among officers with different branches and FAs. The current Officer Education System permits officers to build upon achievements and experience and progress to a higher level of learning. Opportunities exist for resident
and nonresident instruction. There are multiple paths to obtaining a professional education. Officers may follow different
paths to achieve success, even where they share the same branch, FA, or MOS.
4 –4. Guides for branch, military occupational specialty, or functional area development courses
a. Education requirements are satisfied by both the Army’s military schools and by civilian institutions. The BOLC and
the branch CCC includes training specific to junior officers (WO1 and O1 through O3). The ILE, Command and General
Staff College, and SSC provide opportunities for advanced military and leader development training. Specialized courses
offered by military and civilian institutions provide additional opportunities for assignment oriented FA and functional
22

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

category education. Other Services and elements of the Federal Government offer courses that support officer professional
development. Advanced education may consist of resident and nonresident courses. Numerous courses support both Army
requirements and the professional needs of individual officers. It is difficult to anticipate and specify the many combinations of courses that apply to both Army and individual needs. However, representative courses particularly suitable for
various branches, MOS, and FAs are discussed in detail in the Smartbook DA Pam 600–3 at
https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbook-da-pam-600–3.
b. Officers designated to serve in FAs will receive specialized training and education so that they develop the necessary
skills and technical qualifications to perform the duties required of their FA. Courses of study leading to graduate degrees
at civilian colleges and universities may meet these needs. Specific educational requirements are outlined in the FA proponent sections in the Smartbook DA Pam 600–3.
c. The primary reference for Army courses is the online Army Training Requirements and Resources System (ATRRS)
course catalog at https://www.atrrs.army.mil. Most of the courses listed in the FA pages of this resource include course
identification numbers that are assigned an established code. These codes are explained in ATRRS. The additional references listed below can assist officers in planning their developmental training and education—
(1) AR 350–1.
(2) AR 611–1.
(3) AR 621–1.
(4) AR 621–7.
d. Detailed information, including enrollment procedures for correspondence courses, is included in ATRRS at
https://www.atrrs.army.mil. In many cases, correspondence courses paralleling the numbered resident courses listed in
ATRRS are available. The correspondence courses represent an important alternative means of career field development
to many of the resident courses because of their flexibility and convenience.
e. Occasionally, a course may be found under an Army number and the number of another Service and listed in more
than one catalog. A few of the courses listed have no numbers. In such cases, officers may want to contact the responsible
school for pertinent descriptive material.
f. Officers will not enroll in other than Army schools without written approval of the CG, HRC and the DCS, G–3/5/7,
Director of Training. Officers successfully completing other Services’ intermediate staff colleges and SSCs accredited in
accordance with CJCSI 1800.01E will be awarded MEL and JPME credit accordingly upon fulfilling Army JPME requirements.
g. ATRRS is the Army system of record for training. This system allows officers to research information regarding
different schools and courses. The system is also used to track enrollment and interfaces with personnel systems to record
the completion of courses.
h. RA Soldiers will generally attend resident training at the proponent site. However, in some cases RA Soldiers may
attend the Army training study courses taught at Total Army School System (TASS) battalions. These courses are resident
courses. These are different from RC configured courses, which are not treated as resident courses.
4 –5. Nonresident schools and instruction
a. All officers are encouraged to further their branch or FA education through appropriate courses of nonresident instruction. The successful completion of a given level of nonresident instruction is considered on an equivalent level of
attainment to, but does not rule out, future attendance at a resident course of instruction. An exception is enrollment in the
U.S. Army War College Distance Education Course, which awards JPME I, not JPME II as with the resident program, and
rules out attendance at a resident SSC.
b. Equivalent level of attainment means that an officer who has reached a specific MEL through nonresident instruction
receives the same consideration in assignment, promotion, and future schooling as an officer whose MEL was reached
through resident instruction. Officers will not enroll in other than Army schools without written approval of the CG, HRC
and the DCS, G–3/5/7, Director of Training. Officers who do not have the opportunity to attend a resident course should
complete the level of PME appropriate to their grade through nonresident instruction. However, to attend ILE or JPME I
and SSC or JPME II, officers must be HQDA board selected. There is no equivalent level of attainment for the BOLC B,
where resident participation is required.
c. Nonresident instruction allows officers to advance their professional education and their careers, thereby enhancing
their overall performance and potential. Military school courses available through correspondence, with and without a
resident phase, are listed in ATRRS, TASS, and the TRADOC online library, available at
http://www1.youseemore.com/tradoc/.

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

23

4 –6. Educational counseling
The numerous educational opportunities and frequent moves in the Army often make it difficult to plan educational programs. Officers frequently need professional educational counseling and support. Commanders and supervisors play a
significant role in the development of subordinate officers. Officers should turn to their commander, mentor, rater, assignment officer local Army Education Center, or an education counselor at the appropriate Service school. The Warrant Officer Career College at Fort Rucker, AL, is another source for warrant officer education counseling. In addition, many
civilian institutions provide counseling services.
4 –7. Military schools
The Army expects all officers to attend and complete a variety of military schools throughout their career. AR 350–1
identifies the available education opportunities as well as the military schools required for each rank from initial military
training to general officer training.
4 –8. Department of Defense and Department of State schools
Based on Army requirements, the Officer Personnel Management Directorate may designate officers to attend courses at
schools operated by the DOD, Department of State, and Foreign Service Institute.
4 –9. Foreign schools
Each year, based on quotas received by the U.S. Government, approximately 30 qualified officers are selected to attend
26 foreign schools in 15 different countries as students. AR 350–1 contains a list of the foreign schools that U.S. officers
attend. Foreign area officers receive preference for most of these schools.
4 –10. Language training
More than 50 language courses are offered to meet Army requirements for officer linguists. The majority of these courses
are longer than 20 weeks, requiring the officer to PCS to a Defense Language Institute in Monterey, CA, or Washington,
DC. Officers receive language training only if being assigned to a language-coded position. Officers trained at Government
expense test in that language every year and are expected to maintain their proficiency at a 2/2 level as measured by the
Defense Language Proficiency Test.
4 –11. Aviation training
All aviation officers attend initial entry flight training in conjunction with their officer basic course (WOBC or BOLC).
Company grade officers may volunteer for initial entry flight training under the provisions of AR 611 –110. Aviation
qualification and transition training is based on worldwide aviation requirements. Aviators requiring additional skills normally receive training during a PCS move. All officers may volunteer for aircraft specific or MOS-specific training. Course
descriptions and prerequisites are in the ATRRS online catalog.
4 –12. Command team training and education
The Pre-Command Course (PCC) is the CSA’s program. It prepares selectees for command by providing a common understanding of current doctrine and by providing both new and refresher training in selected functions and duties. Brigade
and battalion command preparation is a multi-phase program that provides focused leader development opportunities for
all of the Army’s future senior leaders. RA and Active Guard Reserve (AGR) brigade and battalion level command selectees will attend a three- or four-phase pre-command continuing education and training program, depending on type and
level of command prior to assuming command. Phase I is the branch immaterial PCC at Fort Leavenworth, KS, followed
by two or more of the following PCC phases prior to assuming command. Phase II is training for specific command
categories (modified TOE operational, initial military training, garrison, recruiting, and Acquisition Corps and Corps of
Engineers division or district commands). Phase III is branch or functional training. Phase IV is the senior officer’s legal
orientation course at Charlottesville, VA. Troop program unit (TPU) commanders attend Phases I and II on a space available basis. TPU commanders must attend Phase III if Phase I is not attended. Prerequisites for the branch immaterial PCC
and the Tactical Commanders Development Program are outlined in ATRRS at https://www.atrrs.army.mil. Attendance at
PCC is scheduled by HRC, the Senior Leader Development Office, or the ARNG, as appropriate, unless otherwise stated.
The PCC requirements are detailed in AR 350 –1.

24

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

4 –13. Other military schooling
Many military school courses provide the knowledge or skills necessary for a specific assignment. Officers may apply for
these courses or are scheduled by Officer Personnel Management Directorate, HRC for such courses to qualify for a specific assignment. Complete information on such courses is contained in the ATRRS online catalog.
4 –14. Application for military schools
Officers do not apply as students to centrally selected military schools. They receive automatic consideration for centrally
selected schools when they enter the appropriate zone of eligibility (except those officers who have completed the U.S.
Army War College Distance Education Course). Officers may apply for training through their assignment officers if they
desire training en route to the next assignment or through their command channels if temporary duty (TDY) and return to
the installation is appropriate. The Officer Personnel Management Directorate, HRC may automatically schedule such
training if necessary for the position.
4 –15. Service obligation
a. Attendance at military courses of instruction or civilian education programs at Government expense will incur a
service obligation. AR 350–100 governs service obligations to include which courses of instruction result in an ADSO,
what the policies and procedures are for computing service obligations, and how service obligations are fulfilled.
b. An ADSO differs from a requirement to be assigned to an Army Educational Requirements System position. An
ADSO is a specific period of active duty that an officer serves before eligible for voluntary separation. Assignment to an
Army Educational Requirements System position will be required in addition to the ADSO for the Army to derive the
greatest benefit from Government sponsored civilian education. AR 621–1 specifies the types of education that require
assignment to an Army Educational Requirements System position.
4 –16. Civilian education
a. The Army advanced education programs have several objectives: to meet Army requirements for advanced education, to provide selected officers the opportunity to satisfy their educational aspirations, and to provide a broadening effect.
b. Officers should take advantage of opportunities for advanced education and should consider their civilian education
background when determining their qualifications for study in a given discipline. Officers who want to pursue advanced
degrees should do so in an academic discipline that supports their designated branch, FA, or MOS. On completion of
schooling, officers are assigned by grade, branch, FA, MOS, civilian education level, and when possible, academic discipline (or related discipline set) for initial utilization in an Army Educational Requirements System validated position. In
this manner, specific Army requirements are satisfied while simultaneously contributing to the professional development
of the officer corps and the satisfaction of an officer’s educational aspirations.
c. The appropriate proponent determines academic disciplines that support each branch, FA, or MOS. See branch and
FA-specific information in the Smartbook DA Pam 600–3 at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbook-da-pam600–3.
4 –17. Education programs
Officers may pursue full-time studies toward a master’s or doctoral degree through either fully funded or partially funded
programs or a bachelor’s degree through the Degree Completion Program. Officers are encouraged to pursue advanced
degrees particularly when there is an opportunity to do so in coordination with resident training such as ILE and SSC.
Officers with liberal arts undergraduate degrees should not be dissuaded from their pursuit of graduate education in the
sciences. Available education programs are discussed in general below. AR 621–1 governs specific civil school programs.
a. Fully funded programs. Under these programs, the Army pays tuition and most mandatory fees, provides officers
with full pay and allowances, and moves officers and their Families to the college or university of study. Normally, the
period of schooling does not exceed 18–24 months. Officers may not draw veterans’ education benefits while participating
in the Army fully funded program. AR 621–1 has further details about what is or is not funded through these programs.
(1) Advanced degree program. Selected officers attend graduate school to meet specific Army requirements established by the Army Educational Requirements System. While completing graduate studies, officers are assigned to Army
Educational Requirements System positions according to branch or FA, grade, and appropriate academic skills. Following
graduation, utilization assignments will be served in accordance with AR 621–1 for a minimum of 24 months, and will
normally occur immediately following such education, but no later than the second assignment following education completion. Primary zone of consideration to attend graduate school normally occurs on completion of the CCC, with sufficient
basic branch or MOS experience, and 6 to 8 years of Federal commissioned service; but no later than the 17th year of
service.
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

25

(2) Short course training. Tuition funds allocated to organizations are available for unprogrammed training that is
needed for current job performance when the training is less than 20 weeks and is in subjects for which the Army has no
in-house training capability.
(3) Fully Funded Legal Education Program. TJAG’s Funded Legal Education Program provides instruction leading
to a law degree at an approved civilian school at Government expense (normally 3 academic years) for up to 25 selected
company grade officers each FY. Upon completion, the officer accepts an appointment in the Judge Advocate General’s
Corps (JAGC) for the period of the active duty obligation incurred under the provisions of AR 27–1 and AR 350–100.
The Funded Legal Education Program is the only approved program currently available for Army officers to study the
legal profession. Program participants perform on-the-job-training duties under the supervision of a staff judge advocate
or legal officer designated by TJAG when school is not in session for 5 days or longer. Program participants who do not
finish school or fail to pass the bar exam after two attempts, return to service in their basic branch.
(4) Training with Industry. The purpose of the TWI program is to provide selected DOD personnel the opportunity to
gain career broadening experience while working in an industry environment. It also provides the participant’s organization
the means to acquire needed skills or expertise to accomplish their mission. TWI is a non-degree producing program and
provides training and skills in best business procedures and practices not available through existing military or advanced
civilian schooling programs for identifiable DOD requirements. (See AR 621–1 for further details.)
b. Partially funded programs. Under these programs, the officer bears the cost of all tuition, fees, and textbooks. Many
officers elect to use their in-service veterans benefits (if applicable) to help defray educational costs. The Army provides
officers with full pay and allowances and moves officers and their Families to the school location if the schooling is 20
weeks or more. Participants attending schools for less than 20 weeks attend in a permissive TDY status. After their branch
notifies officers that they are accepted into the program, it is their responsibility to select and be accepted by an accredited
college or university.
(1) Degree Completion Program. The Degree Completion Program serves as a vehicle for officers pursuing a master’s
degree or warrant officer pursuing a bachelor’s degree to complete their education requirements. This program authorizes
officers up to 18 months of full-time civilian education to complete undergraduate or graduate degree requirements. Company and field grade officers pursuing an advanced degree must agree to study in an academic discipline that supports their
branch or FA (or in some cases, a designated skill). The primary zone of consideration for the graduate level is the 5th
through the 17th year of service.
(2) Cooperative Degree Program. The Cooperative Degree Program enables selected officers to complete degree requirements. An accredited college or university awards an academic degree for course work done as part of a program of
instruction at a military school and course work done at the civilian college or university. The civilian education may occur
before or after the service course of instructions (see AR 621–1 for further details).
(3) Fellowships or scholarships. According to AR 621–7 eligible officers may apply for permission to accept fellowships or scholarships offered by corporations, foundations, funds, or educational institutions. Participation in such programs normally does not exceed 1 year in advanced civilian schooling and officers will incur an ADSO in accordance with
AR 350–100. Program and eligibility criteria are subject to change; refer to annual MILPER messages for the most current
information.
(4) Broadening Opportunities. For a list of available Broadening Opportunity Programs and detailed program information, please go to https://www.hrc.army.mil/bop.
4 –18. Tuition assistance
Eligible officers pursuing off-duty undergraduate or graduate civilian education courses may apply for tuition assistance
under the provisions of AR 621–5. If approved, the Army pays up to 100 percent of tuition costs. Individual officers pay
all other amounts, such as fees for registration and matriculation and the cost of books and supplies. Participants agree in
writing to remain on active duty for a minimum of 2 years after completing the course or courses (see AR 621–5 for
additional information).
4 –19. Eligibility criteria and application procedures
a. Since many elements of the programs discussed in this chapter differ, officers should consult the governing Army
regulations for the specific eligibility criteria and application procedures.
b. Selection for full-time civil schooling is governed by the needs of the Army, the officer’s demonstrated performance,
and his or her academic background. Officers pursuing a graduate degree should choose a discipline that fulfills the professional development requirements of the officer’s designated branch, FA, or MOS. In addition, applicants must have
completed the CCC. Since selection for full-time schooling programs is based in part on the availability of the officer,
Officer Personnel Management Directorate retains schooling applications until the applicant withdraws from further consideration or becomes ineligible by virtue of military performance or years of service. Officers selected for advanced
26

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

civilian schooling should expect a utilization assignment immediately after graduation. Officers who attend fully funded
educational programs are normally subject to recoupment if, prior to completing their required service obligation, they
separate from the Army voluntarily or involuntarily.

Chapter 5
Officer Promotions
5 –1. General
This chapter covers the active duty promotion system for officers through the grade of colonel. This system constitutes a
vital aspect of MILPER management affecting each officer and, therefore, must be legally correct and logically sound.
Further, it must be administered fairly and equitably; to do otherwise would jeopardize the effectiveness of the officer
corps.
5 –2. Promotion process objectives
Though the specific procedures for selecting officers for grade advancement have varied over time, the objectives of this
process have remained constant—
a. Ensure advancement to the higher grades of the best qualified officers.
b. Meet Army branch, MOS, FA, and grade requirements.
c. Provide career incentive.
d. Promote officers based on the whole person concept and potential to serve in the next higher grade.
e. Although not an objective, identifying and eliminating ineffective officers is another result of the promotion process.
5 –3. Statutory requisites
The objectives of the promotion system are consistent with statutory requisites and the realities of the Army structure and
authorizations.
a. The legal basis for the officer promotion system is contained in 10 USC. This law prescribes strength and grade
authorizations, promotion list components, promotion procedures, and separation procedures resulting from nonselection.
The statutory requirements of 10 USC have been promulgated through regulatory, directive, and policy means in the establishment and administration of the promotion system.
b. DOPMA became effective 15 September 1981. The DOPMA was a major revision to 10 USC and is still the basis
for year group management of the company and field grade officer corps. In 1984, the DOPMA provisions of 10 USC
were amended to overcome certain unintended consequences of the original act and to give the Service secretaries more
flexibility in limiting eligibility for promotion consideration.
c. The WOMA was passed into law as part of FY 1992/1993 legislation (see PL 102 –190) and went into effect on 5
December 1991. The WOMA revisions to 10 USC have become the basis for the management of the active duty warrant
officer corps.
d. Defense authorization legislation for FY 2007 highlighted the 10 USC requirement to accommodate a standard for
exemplary conduct as part of the officer promotions process. DODI 1320.14 sets policy for how promotion selection
boards, special selection boards (SSBs), and special review boards evaluate officers against the standard of exemplary
conduct and deal with adverse information on officer conduct.
5 –4. Active duty list
a. Background. The DOPMA and WOMA revised the laws providing for the establishment of separate RA (permanent)
and Army of the United States (temporary) lists and established a single, consolidated ADL. The DOPMA and WOMA,
as revised, provide for the following:
(1) Establishment of an initial active duty list. No later than 6 months after 15 September 1981, all officers of the Army
serving under 10 USC Chapter 36 as amended by DOPMA (except for those identified in 10 USC 641) will be placed on
the ADL in the same relative seniority that they held on 14 September 1981. Pre-WOMA relative seniority was determined
according to seniority criteria outlined in AR 600 –8–29, and was primarily based on the Army of the United States date
of rank a warrant officer held on 4 December 1991.
(2) Adjustment to the active duty list. Adjustments to the ADL are made to maintain the relative seniority among officers of the Army as it existed on the day before the effective date of the law. Under provisions of 10 USC 741, the
Secretary of the Army did establish or adjust the ADL date of rank of any company or field grade officer who was serving
on active duty on 14 September 1981. Any RA or USAR officer, who on the effective date of DOPMA (15 September
1981) was serving on active duty in a temporary (Army of the United States) grade that was equal to their permanent (RA
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

27

or USAR) grade, was awarded an ADL date of rank equal to that held in their Army of the United States grade. WOMA
provided for the establishment of an initial ADL that placed all warrant officers of the Army serving under 10 USC in the
same relative seniority, which they held on 4 December 1991.
b. Current law. As required by 10 USC, the Army maintains a single ADL on which officers are to be carried in order
of seniority. They are considered for promotion each time a selection board is convened to consider officers in an established date of rank zone of consideration for their competitive category. The provisions of 10 USC 741 and 10 USC 742
relate to rank among officers of the same grade as follows:
(1) Establishes relative rank of the various officer grades.
(2) Provides that rank among officers of the same grade or equivalent grade is initially determined by date of rank. An
officer with an earlier date of rank is senior to an officer with a later date of rank.
(3) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Army have prescribed rules for breaking date of rank ties and
general rules for establishing dates of rank when breaks in service, service credit, and placement on the ADL determinations must be made. The date of rank and rank and precedence criteria are published in AR 600–8–29.
(4) To maintain the relative seniority among warrant officers of the Army as it existed on the day before the effective
date of the law, the Secretary of the Army established and adjusted the ADL on 4 December 1991. Any RA or USAR
warrant officer who, on the effective date of WOMA, was serving on active duty was awarded an ADL date of rank equal
to the highest grade, temporary (Army of the United States) or permanent (USAR or RA), he or she had achieved.
5 –5. Promotion process
a. The provisions of 10 USC provide for a single promotion process of all officers on active duty and on the ADL,
regardless of their component. Active duty reserve officers serving on the ADL are no longer considered by Reserve
boards.
b. The WOMA mandated a single promotion process for all warrant officers on active duty and the ADL, regardless of
their component. The requirement for warrant officers to be recommended by two different selection boards (temporary
and permanent) for promotion to the next higher grade was eliminated. On 5 December 1991, warrant officers serving on
active duty assumed as their permanent grade the highest grade, temporary (Army of the United States) or permanent
(USAR or RA), they had held. Active duty Reserve officers serving on the ADL are no longer considered by a Reserve
board.
5 –6. Army grade structure
a. The distribution of grades at major and above is controlled by 10 USC and may be further constrained by Congress,
the Office of the Secretary of the Army, or the CSA. Although 10 USC is subject to revision and modification, the basic
concept remains unchanged. In effect, the by grade number of field grade officers allowed depends on total officer authorized strength levels, which are based on the total size of the Army and prescribed by the Secretary of the Army.
b. The distribution of grade CW5 is established and controlled by 10 USC and WOMA and may be further constrained
by Congress, the Office of the Secretary of the Army, or the CSA. Although 10 USC and WOMA are subject to revision
and modification, the basic concept remains unchanged. In effect, the number of CW5 positions depends on the total
warrant officer authorized strength level. Total warrant officer authorizations are based on the size of the Army and the
number prescribed by the Secretary of the Army.
5 –7. Promotion flow
a. Changes in authorizations, losses, and promotions to the next higher grade create fluctuations in both the time in
service and time in grade at which promotions occur. Under ideal circumstances, each qualified officer would advance
through the grade structure with some degree of predictability. However, a relatively standardized promotion flow does
not occur consistently due to expansion and contraction of the Army, changes in promotion policies, and variations in
officer losses each year.
b. The provisions of 10 USC establish minimum time in grade requirements for promotion to the next higher grade.
c. The promotion timings, as stated in DODI 1320.13, are expressed in terms of the years of active Federal commissioned service at which promotion occurs. The promotion opportunity (DOPMA rate), as stated in DODI 1320.13, is the
percentage of total selects over the eligible in-the-zone population.
d. Changes in authorizations, losses, and promotions to the next higher grade create fluctuations in the point within a
warrant officer’s career at which promotions occur. Under ideal circumstances, each qualified warrant officer should advance through the grade structure with some degree of predictability. This relatively standardized promotion flow is not
consistently obtainable due to expansion and contraction of the Army, changes in promotion policies, and variations in
warrant officer losses each year.

28

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

e. The WOMA establishes minimum time in grade requirements for promotion to the next higher grade. The warrant
officer promotion flow objective may be expressed in terms of years at which WOS promotions occur. History has consistently revealed that rapid promotions, in terms of reduced time in grade, have occurred during periods of force expansion. Conversely, promotions have always slowed down when force reductions occur.
5 –8. Below-the-zone promotions
The below-the-zone or secondary zone promotion capability is designed to allow the accelerated promotion of outstanding
officers who have demonstrated performance and indicated potential clearly superior to those who otherwise would be
promoted. Below-the-zone promotions apply only to promotion to the ranks of CW3, CW4, CW5, major, lieutenant colonel, and colonel. Officers will normally receive only one below-the-zone consideration per grade. By law, the number of
officers recommended for promotion from below-the-zone may not exceed 10 percent of the total number recommended;
except that the Secretary of Defense may authorize that percentage to be increased to no more than 15 percent.
Note. AMEDD, Chaplain Corps, and JAGC are not part of the ACC.
5 –9. Competitive categories
Each officer on the ADL is grouped in a competitive category for promotion as authorized in 10 USC and prescribed in
DODI 1320.13. Competitive categories are established to manage the career development and promotion of certain groups
of officers whose specialized education, training, or experience, and often relatively narrow utilization, make separate
career management desirable. Officers in the same competitive category will compete among themselves for promotion.
5 –10. Impact of the Officer Personnel Management System evolution
With the implementation of OPMS revisions, changes have occurred in company grade, field grade, and warrant officer
personnel management. These changes affect only ACC officers and warrant officers.
a. Promotion plan. As part of OPMS, the Army defines primary and secondary zones of consideration for field grade
promotions by basic year groups. The in-the-zone population, or primary zone, is usually established by the dates the first
and last due course officer was promoted from a specific year group. A due course officer is one who has been on continuous active duty since commissioning as a second lieutenant and who has neither failed selection for promotion nor been
selected for promotion from below-the-zone. This primary zone is accessed into the Army, and at times shaped to achieve
a promotion opportunity that is relatively similar over a period of the next 5 years. This procedure has become known as
the 5-year Field Grade Promotion Plan. OPMS revisions have not changed this policy.
b. Decentralized selections. The officer’s local commander approves promotion to first lieutenant and CW2. Normally,
the battalion commander promotes with the recommendation of the company commander. Although the promotion is
thought of as being automatic upon completion of a specific period of active duty, the promotion is based on an officer’s
demonstrated performance. Officers who fail promotion to first lieutenant and CW2 are generally released from active
duty or discharged.
c. Centralized selections. Officers promoted from captain through colonel and CW3 to CW5 are selected by HQDA
centralized boards. Selection boards are asked to recommend fully or best qualified (as appropriate) officers from an inclusive zone of consideration. The zone of consideration includes officers from above, in, and below the promotion zone.
When the number of officers being considered exceeds the maximum number to promote, the boards operate under best
qualified criteria. Centralized boards, except captain, are provided minimum promotion requirements (floors) by branch,
FA, or AOC to ensure the Army’s skill and grade mix balances with its needs. Recommendations are based upon branch,
MOS, and FA competency, the potential to serve in the higher grade, and the whole person concept. Factors considered
include—
(1) Performance.
(2) Embodiment of Army Values.
(3) Professional attributes and ethics.
(4) Integrity and character.
(5) Assignment history and professional development.
(6) Military bearing and physical fitness.
(7) Attitude, dedication, and service.
(8) Military and civilian education and training.
(9) Concern for Soldiers and Families.
d. Special branches. Promotion within special branches (AMEDD, Chaplain Corps, and JAGC) are subject to additional consideration. The officer promotion system reinforces all other personnel management programs to acquire and
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

29

retain the right number of officers, with the proper skills, to meet the Army’s needs. The objective of promotion within the
special branches is to maintain an orderly promotion flow that replaces losses, meets changing requirements, and recognizes uneven attrition rates within these competitive categories. Provisions of the system include mandated floors by
branch, FA, or AOC and the optional employment of selection ceilings. Selection opportunity may vary among competitive
categories based upon projected requirements in the higher grades.
e. Instructions to promotion boards. Each board receives a memorandum of instruction from the Secretary of the Army
providing guidance for the selection process. Copies of these memorandums are released to the officer corps following
approval and public release of the board results. That portion pertaining to specialization has been expanded significantly
to indicate that, in today’s Army, the specialist has a significant role and responsibility. The instructions highlight the need
for the different officer professional development patterns required for accomplishing the Army’s total mission. Instead of
a single traditionally accepted career pattern through various grades, multiple paths for advancement exist as the Army
recognizes divergent Service needs and individual capabilities. Further, instructions to promotion boards prescribe that
promotion potential will be determined, for the most part, based on an officer’s record of performance in their designated
branch or FA and the officer’s overall performance.
f. Promotion board membership. Personal qualifications, experience, and performance determine promotion board
membership. The ACOM, ASCC, and DRU commanders recommend board members (colonel and below) from lists provided by the HQDA Secretariat for Selection Boards of eligible candidates who meet qualifications in a broad spectrum
of military fields. Following policy guidance from the Secretary of the Army, membership is designed to adequately reflect
the skills, commands, and diversity of the competitive category under consideration. The Director of Military Personnel
Management, DCS, G–1, approves the final slate of members on behalf of the Secretary of the Army. The CSA, approves
general officer membership.
g. Special selection boards. SSBs are convened, as required, to consider officers with dates of rank above or in the
promotion zone that were erroneously omitted from consideration or whose official records contained material errors seen
by the original board. Erroneous entries or omissions on DA Form 4037 generally do not justify reconsideration by a SSB.
Officers are responsible for reviewing their DA Form 4037 at least annually and AR 600–8–29 allows them to submit a
letter to the president of the board when they are in the zone of consideration. This is considered sufficient opportunity to
overcome minor administrative deficiencies.

Chapter 6
Officer Evaluation System
6 –1. Overview
a. The Officer Evaluation System identifies those officers most qualified for advancement and assignment to positions
of increased responsibility. Under this system, officers are evaluated on their performance and potential through duty
evaluations, school evaluations, and HQDA evaluations (both central selection boards and HRC officer management assessments).
b. The assessment of an officer’s potential is a subjective judgment of the officer’s capability to perform at a specified
level of responsibility, authority, or sensitivity. Potential is normally associated with the capability to perform at a higher
grade. However, the Army also assesses the officer’s potential for retention and increased responsibility within a specified
grade.
c. Officer qualifications provide the real link between the needs of the Army and individual officer performance. They
focus on an officer’s background in terms of experience and expertise and include such items as specialty qualification,
successful performance in demanding positions, civil and military schooling, and physical profile. Performance is the
execution of tasks in support of the organization or Army missions. While results or accomplishment of a series of tasks
is the primary focus, the manner in which tasks are approached and a general adherence to officer corps professional values
are also important. The performance assessment by HQDA differs significantly from that accomplished in the organizational duty environment. The organizational duty assessment involves personal knowledge of the situations surrounding a
specific performance for a specified period of time. The HQDA assessment is accomplished by an after-the-fact assessment
of a series of reports on performance over a variety of duty positions and covering the officer’s entire career.
6 –2. Officer evaluation reporting
a. The officer evaluation reporting is a subsystem of the Officer Evaluation System. It includes the methods and procedures for organizational evaluation and assessment of an officer’s performance and an estimation of potential for future
service based on the manner of that performance.
b. The official documents of these assessments are the DA Form 67–10 series and DA Form 1059.
30

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

(1) The performance evaluation contained on the OER is for a specific rating period only. It focuses on comparing the
officer’s performance with the duty position requirements and the standards of the rating officials. Performance includes
the methods or means of effort used by an officer in accomplishing tasks assigned by superiors or implied by the duty
position. Performance assessments are then determined as a result of the rated officers efforts, degree of task accomplishment, and the degree of compliance with competencies and attributes encompassed within the leadership requirements
model that apply to all officers, regardless of duty position, grade, or specialty.
(2) The potential evaluation contained on the OER is a projection of the performance accomplished during the rating
period into future circumstances that encompass greater responsibilities. The primary focus of this assessment is the capability of the officer to meet increasing levels of responsibility in relation to his or her peers.
(3) DA Form 1059 is prepared for officers who take part in resident and nonresident training at Service schools and
civilian educational institutions. It explains the accomplishments, potential, and limitations of students while attending
courses. Furthermore, performance assessments are linked to the leadership requirements model in accordance with ADP
6–22 and ADRP 6–22.
6 –3. Relationship with the Officer Personnel Management System, leader development, and character
development process
a. The primary function of the EES is to provide information from the organizational chain of command to be used by
HQDA for officer personnel decisions. The information contained in the OER is correlated with the Army’s needs and
individual officer qualifications. It provides the basis for OPMS personnel actions such as promotion, branch and FA
designation, elimination, retention in grade, retention on active duty, reduction in force, command and project manager
designation, school selection, assignment, and specialty designation.
b. An equally important function of the EES is to encourage the professional development of the officer corps. To
accomplish this, the system uses the Army’s leadership doctrine to relate teaching, coaching, counseling, and assessing
core leader competencies and attributes to improved performance and enhanced professional development. Particularly
valuable is the developmental counseling fostered through senior officers linking the Army’s evaluation system to its
leader development and personnel management systems. Developmental counseling is the responsibility of senior officers
to provide feedback concerning professional growth, potential, and career pathways to success. While these aspects of
developmental counseling through mentorship have always been a major element of the evaluation process, they must be
continually emphasized.
c. For further information on the Officer Evaluation System, see AR 623–3 and DA Pam 623–3.

Chapter 7
Reserve Component Officer Development and Career Management
7 –1. Purpose
a. The RCs of the Army include the ARNG and the USAR. This chapter discusses the unique aspects of OPMS for the
RC. The OPMS for the RC is executed by HRC for lieutenant colonels and below (AGR, individual mobilization augmentee (IMA), and Individual Ready Reserve (IRR)) for the USAR. The Office of the Chief, Army Reserve manages the
Ready Reserve colonels, sergeants major, and command sergeants major for the USAR. The state adjutants general (AGs)
and the National Guard Bureau (NGB) manage the officer population for the ARNG.
b. When not in a federalized status (under Federal control), the ARNG comes under control of the states, the territories
of Guam and the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. The overall management
of ARNG officers is stipulated in NGR 600–100 and is stipulated in NGR 600–101 for Warrant Officers.
7 –2. Reserve Component overview
a. The RC consists of three categories: the Ready Reserve, the Standby Reserve, and the Retired Reserve. All Reserve
and Guard officers are assigned to one of these three categories. It is common for an RC officer to serve in various capacities in a variety of duty statuses during a career.
b. The Ready Reserve consists of the Selected Reserve, the IRR, and the Inactive National Guard (ING) and is regulated
by NGR 614–1.
(1) The Selected Reserve. The Selected Reserve consists of the following:
(a) Units manned and equipped to serve or train either as operational or as augmentation units. This category consists
of officers who are required to perform 48 unit training assemblies per year and 14 days (15 days for ARNG) per year in
annual training status or officers in the training pipeline (for example, officers who have not yet completed initial active

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

31

duty for training, chaplain candidates, health profession students, early commissioning program participants, and cadets
enrolled in the Simultaneous Membership Program).
(b) Active Guard Reserve. In accordance with 10 USC 101, the term “Active Guard and Reserve” means a member of
an RC who is on active duty pursuant to 10 USC 12310 or 32 USC 502 and 32 USC 709. These officers are Guard or
Reserve members who are ordered to active duty or full-time National Guard duty for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or training the RC units. Information on the AGR program is found in AR 135–18 and
ARNG PPOM 18–020.
(c) Individual mobilization augmentee. These officers are trained individuals assigned to an AC, Selective Service
System, or Federal Emergency Management Agency organization in billets that must be filled on, or shortly after, mobilization. Officers assigned to this control group perform annual training and are assigned to a specific duty position in an
RA unit or organization. Information on the IMA program is found in AR 140–145.
(2) The Individual Ready Reserve. These officers are Reserve officers not serving in the Selected Reserve. The IRR is
a manpower pool comprised of trained individuals who typically have some period of their military service obligation or
contractual commitment remaining. However, a remaining service obligation or contractual commitment is not a requirement to be member of the IRR. The IRR is vital to the expansibility and reversibility of the active officer force pool and is
critical to augmenting RC manpower requirements. It provides officers the opportunity to continue serving in a more
limited capacity to facilitate their pursuit of a civilian career track or other personal life obligations. Members may voluntarily participate in training for retirement points with or without pay. Required training (involuntary) may not exceed 30
days a year. Officers in the IRR are in an active status and are considered for promotion with their peers.
(3) The Inactive National Guard. The ING consists of National Guard personnel in an inactive status in the Ready
Reserve, not in the Selected Reserve, attached to a specific National Guard unit. To remain ING members, they muster
once a year with their assigned unit, but do not participate in training activities. ING Soldiers are considered mobilization
assets of the unit. Similar to other IRR, some ING members have legal and contractual obligations. ING members may not
participate in training activities for points or pay and are not eligible for promotion.
c. The Standby Reserve is a pool of trained individuals with the capability to supplement manpower needs in specific
skills. The Standby Reserve is managed in accordance to DODI 1235.09. These officers maintain their military affiliation
without being in the Ready Reserve. They may be designated as key civilian employees or have a temporary hardship or
disability. These individuals are not eligible for mobilization.
d. The Retired Reserve is comprised of all Reserve officers who receive retired pay on the basis of active duty or
Reserve service; all Reserve officers who are otherwise eligible for retired pay but have not reached required age to receive
nonregular retired pay (typically age 60, but may be reduced per 10 USC 12731) and who have not elected discharge and
are not voluntary members of the Ready or Standby Reserve; and other retired reservists. Retired Service members may
be ordered to active duty involuntarily whenever required as determined by the Secretary of the Army.
7 –3. Officer Personnel Management System
a. The flexibility of the OPMS enables USAR and ARNG unique policies, where necessary, to facilitate officer management and development for RC officers. The OPMS subsystems of strength management, assignments, professional
development, evaluation, centralized selection, and review process apply to both the RA and RC. Examples of RC-unique
policies within these subsystems are—
(1) Assignments. Assignments for RC officers may be constrained by geography and structure. Assignment policies
for the RC take into account these constraints and enable officers not serving full-time to continue to develop while allowing those officers to establish and maintain civilian occupations. Assignment policies for AGR personnel have constraints,
however, AGR assignments under 10 USC are not limited by geography, and ARNG AGR assignments under 32 USC are
limited only by state boundaries.
(2) Centralized selection. The implementation of the ROPMA in 1996 synchronized the RC company and field grade
officer promotion systems with the AC. It established a best qualified promotion system for RC officers, replacing the
fully qualified system previously used. There is a centralized selection process for officers in the USAR and ARNG.
However, there are also policies and procedures to conduct decentralized unit vacancy promotions to fill critical positions,
and both the USAR and the ARNG have policies and processes within OPMS for a decentralized selection process where
required to account for geographic constraints. Within the ARNG, states and territories conduct selection for brigade and
battalion level commands. Within the USAR, selection of battalion and brigade-level commanders is through a centralized
command board process.
(3) Professional development. While RC officers share the same mission as their RA counterparts, the unique nature
of the RC officer’s role as a “citizen Soldier” poses a challenge for professional development. RC officers are expected to
follow RA officer development patterns as closely as possible, except that RC officers, in some instances, have increased
windows to complete mandatory educational requirements. To meet professional development objectives, RC officers may
32

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

need to rotate among TPU, the IRR, and the IMA programs. These transfers are necessitated by geographical considerations, as well as the need to provide as many officers as possible the opportunity to serve with troops in leadership and
staff positions. Additionally, there may be occasions when officers need to transfer to the IRR while they complete mandatory educational requirements. Such transfers will be temporary and should not be seen as impacting negatively on the
officer’s career. The success of an officer is not measured by length of service in any one component or control group, but
by the officer’s breadth of experience, duty performance, and adherence to branch and functional requirements.
b. The OPMS model described applies to the RA and RC and provides the flexibility to allow officers to grow in their
basic branch or FA and gain breadth of experience. Managing officers within the functional aligned design will provide
opportunities for officers to be well-grounded in their branch and FA, provide opportunities to gain additional competencies to create multiple-skilled leaders, and still provide the flexibility necessary to compensate for the challenges of civilian
employment, geography, and structure.
7 –4. Commissioned officer development
a. RC officers are accessed into the RC at company grade and field grade level. Initial accession is into the Army’s
basic branches, and officers should seek educational and developmental assignment opportunities outlined by their proponent to gain depth in their chosen branch. Officers previously commissioned by another component are accessed in either
their current branch or FA or will undergo a branch or FA transfer.
b. RC officers do not have a centralized functional category designation, but choose to transition to an FA and functional
categories at critical points of their career. Officers who choose to designate in an FA will complete PME or other qualification training necessary. Once an RC officer commits to an FA designation, normally at the senior company grade or
junior field grade level, officers should seek assignment to positions requiring expertise in the particular specialty associated with the officer’s functional category branch or FA skills. Senior RC officers well-grounded in their branch or FA
should increase their breadth by seeking assignments outside their basic branch or FAs in broadening and developmental
positions that require leadership and managerial skills common to all officers.
c. The objectives of OPMS in the RC are achieved through interaction between the individual, proponent, career managers, and the field commander. The level of control and the nature of that interaction differ based on the component and
status of the officer. Each plays a vital role in the officer’s development.
(1) Progressive operational assignments serve to give officers depth in their chosen branch or FA. RC officers should
aggressively seek operational assignments of increasing responsibility and complexity. In the RC environment, assignment
options are constrained by the force structure and demographic and geographic limitations. For these reasons, RC officers
may need to accept assignments throughout the Selected Reserve. RC officers must also realize the possibility of occasional
temporary transfers to the IRR, especially in conjunction with the completion of PME requirements. These transfers provide the officer an opportunity to complete required studies without the distraction of a troop assignment and allow other
officers the opportunity to gain troop leadership experience. The concepts of equivalent assignment and constructive credit
should be considered when determining RC operational assignments. There are numerous leadership positions within the
RC structure that do not fall into the traditional definition of TOE or TDA command. TOE leadership and command
positions should be recognized and desired as potential assignments; however, there are also TDA staff positions in regional and state commands that require quality leaders and provide similar operational experience as battalion and brigade
staff positions. Careful planning and programming by agencies, commanders, and the individual officer are essential to
maximize the career potential and efficient use of officer skills, knowledge, and attitudes. Experience gained through
challenging and varied assignments enhances officer development and provides trained officers able to meet the dynamic
needs of the RCs.
(2) Many RC officers are leaders in industry, the community, and in the corporate world. Many positions in corporations
provide training and experience not only useful to the military but closely related to military specialty skills. Officers at
all levels should be sensitive to the relationship between civilian occupations and training and military skills. Being the
financial officer for a corporation certainly provides evidence of qualification as a military finance officer. Leadership in
a civilian occupation provides evidence of potential for military leadership positions. These are examples of constructive
credit possibilities that should be considered in determining an officer’s qualification for branch and FA designation, and
award of AOCs and skills. AR 611–1 provides guidance for evaluating civilian education and occupation experience in
the classification of RC officers. Officers may also apply for constructive or equivalent credit for military education courses
in accordance with AR 350–1.
(3) Officers in the RC serve in Joint Headquarters, Joint State Task Force Headquarters, and in other assignments that
interact with other Services and agencies. Officers may serve in JDAL positions and are eligible to have their non-JDAL
billet experiences reviewed for possible award of joint experience points. These points, along with completion of the
requisite education, would make them eligible for joint qualifications.

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

33

(4) The RC has positions that are independent of branch or FA coding and are designated as branch or FA generalist,
immaterial positions. RC company and field grade officers can expect to serve in these assignments at various times during
their careers, regardless of their functional designation. Officers are selected for these positions based on overall manner
of performance, previous experience, military and civilian education, and estimated potential for further service.
7 –5. Warrant officer development
Career management is of critical importance to modern RC warrant officers. Modern RC warrant officers are complex
people with numerous skills and disciplines, both civilian and military. The need for a thorough, professionally designed
leader development plan is both obvious and imperative. The career RC warrant officers must be well trained to fill their
mobilization role.
a. Army National Guard.
(1) ARNG warrant officer career management is the responsibility of the state AG.
(2) The NGB communicates DA policy to the state AG in all matters concerning warrant officer career management.
(3) Leader development is a primary command responsibility. Commanders at all levels assist in the administration of
WOLDAP ARNG by coordinating with the officer personnel manager to develop and properly guide the career of each
officer in their command; recommending assignments according to qualifications, aptitudes, potential, and desires of their
officers; serving as mentors; conducting periodic evaluations and counseling; and recommending leader development
schools and training.
(4) Organization personnel officers, especially at battalion level, play a vital role in career management for ARNG
warrant officers. The responsibilities of the personnel officer include maintaining liaison with the officer personnel manager, assisting warrant officers in maintaining their records, counseling warrant officers concerning requirements for designation of MOS and FA, and making recommendations to the commander and the Military Personnel Management Office
ARNG for changes to the personnel status of warrant officers.
(5) Warrant officers have the final responsibility for ensuring they are progressing satisfactorily in their professional
development. They establish goals and evaluate progress, making necessary adjustments to achieve personal goals and
professional proficiency.
(6) The Army Military Human Resource Records for all ARNG warrant officers are maintained at NGB. The appropriate state AG office maintains a field MILPER record jacket for each warrant officer.
(7) The state AG establishes unit location and stationing.
b. U.S. Army Reserve.
(1) Commanders and assignment officers are charged with the duty of developing the most professionally competent
USAR warrant officers possible by consistently providing meaningful training opportunities for the warrant officers within
their area of management responsibility. The assignment officer has training programs available which are designed to
provide a balance of military experience during each USAR warrant officer’s career.
(2) The TPU is one important training vehicle. In the TPU, warrant officers gain the operational assignment experience
necessary for leader development. In this area, commanders must be closely involved with the developmental process of
their subordinate warrant officers by offering progressive and sequential assignments and ensuring that appropriate skills,
knowledge, and attitudes are developed.
(3) A balance must be maintained between assignments to TPUs and assignments within the IMA and IRR. Diversity
of assignment reduces the probability of narrow, limited training and assignment experience. Stagnation in any category
of assignment can be counterproductive to the development of the individual officer, as well as improperly utilizing the
availability of assignments to enhance the professional capability of the entire warrant officer cohort.
(4) In the IRR, the warrant officers are able to update their backgrounds by training with the RA in progressive career
field assignments. This type of assignment is called “counterpart training.” IMA assignments may also be available.
c. Warrant officer management considerations.
(1) Army National Guard. To properly plan for the development and assignment of warrant officers into positions of
increasing responsibility, it is necessary to have an overview of the state force structure and an inventory of warrant officer
positions. States develop a State Master Development Plan (SMDP) as a tool for this purpose. The SMDP allows for
analysis of all MOSs authorized by state force structure documents to determine career progression patterns for warrant
officers within the state. The SMDP is used to determine how many warrant officers in each MOS the AG needs to develop.
The proper selection, training, and utilization of warrant officers is dependent on each state’s MOS requirements. Institutional training must be completed at the appropriate warrant officer career point, the best qualified warrant officers must
receive progressive operational assignments in recognition of their demonstrated skills, and all warrant officers must be
aware of their responsibility to achieve the highest possible goals of self-development.
(a) All warrant officers are assigned according to individual qualifications that are properly documented.

34

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

(b) The professional capabilities of all warrant officers are developed through planned and progressively responsible
assignments. This ensures a sufficient number of qualified warrant officers at all times to accomplish assigned missions.
(c) All warrant officers have equal opportunity for promotion selection and for higher assignments on the basis of their
demonstrated abilities.
(d) All warrant officers are aware of the guidelines and expectations in their career planning.
(2) U.S. Army Reserve. Decisions on assignments will be made on the basis of the "whole person" concept and unit
requirements. Military training priorities must be integrated with the officer’s civilian job as well as personal and community responsibilities.
(a) The assignment officer or career manager will ensure that the background information on each warrant officer is
complete. Each record will be reviewed to determine the extent and quality of activity during service. Those IRR officers
without recent active participation may be programmed for counterpart training, if available, with an AC unit prior to
consideration for assignment to a troop unit.
(b) Warrant officers serving in the IRR will be considered for reassignment to a TPU or an IMA assignment based on
the following factors:
1. Availability and type of TPUs within a reasonable commuting distance in accordance with AR 140–1.
2. Prior experience, both active and RC, and the level of this experience compared to a typical warrant officer of the
same grade, MOS or FA, and age.
3. Career field and level of military schooling.
4. Amount of time the warrant officer can make available for military activities and officer’s preferences for types of
assignments.
(c) The assignment officer or career manager and, when applicable, the senior leader development office senior warrant
officer must ensure that officers have the prerequisite and, when appropriate, civilian schooling required to prepare them
for reassignment.
7 –6. Management considerations
a. Previous active duty assignments. When evaluating an officer’s active duty assignments, consideration should be
given to the duty positions held by the officer, as well as his or her experience level. Active duty experience should be
capitalized upon by assigning these officers to positions in which they can share their experiences and expertise.
b. Civilian background. Assignment officers should evaluate the officer’s civilian education and occupational background for potential skills, knowledge, and attitudes that have military applications. Consideration may be given for designation of an SI for a civilian-acquired skill.
7 –7. Individual mobilization augmentee (U.S. Army Reserve – SELECT Reserve)
a. General. The overall objective of the IMA program is to facilitate the rapid expansion of the Active Army wartime
structure of the DOD and other departments or agencies of the U.S. Government to meet military manpower requirements
in the event of military contingency, premobilization, mobilization, sustainment, or demobilization operations. Preselected,
fully qualified officers are assigned to these positions and are trained during peacetime to augment the commands and
agencies to enhance mission accomplishment upon mobilization. These officers are referred to as IMAs and remain part
of the Selected Reserve status. IMAs are assigned to the Active Army organization to include Uniform Code of Military
Justice authority in accordance with AR 27–10. Annual training and individual duty for training are coordinated between
the assigned unit or organization and the officer (for further guidance on the IMA program, see AR 140–145).
b. Training. IMA officers are to coordinate directly with their proponent agency to arrange and schedule annual training and individual duty for trainings which include PME required for promotion purposes. As IMA Soldiers are required
to be fully AOC qualified upon assignment to an IMA authorization, there are no other training opportunities that will be
funded (unless required by the AOC, not by the assigned position). Requests for annual training and PME are to be submitted and coordinated with the appropriate team that serves the Soldier’s AOC within U.S. Army Human Resources
Command, 1600 Spearhead Division Road, Fort Knox, KY 40122–5200. Review the HRC website, available at
https://www.hrc.army.mil, to locate the IRR or IMA team that manages the IMA Soldier by AOC. HRC publishes all
training orders.
c. Attachment. Coordination and approval of the assigned agency, an IMA Soldier may be afforded the opportunity to
perform their individual duty for trainings (for pay or points) with another unit closer to their home of record. An attachment order is required to assure payment and points. Complete and submit a DA Form 4651 (Request for Reserve Component Assignment or Attachment) to the appropriate IRR or IMA team within HRC for publication of the attachment
order.

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

35

7 –8. Officer education
a. Resident courses. RC officers are authorized to attend resident Army service schools to become qualified in their
present or projected assignments as funds and allocations allow. Attendance at resident Service schools is the preferred
option for all RC officers since it allows for peer-to-peer interaction and an ongoing exchange of ideas and experiences. It
also allows RC officers to interact with their RA counterparts and provide them with information about the RC. It is
understood, however, that not all RC officers will be able to attend all Service schools in residence due to budgetary, time,
or training seat constraints. For this reason, type of school attendance (resident or nonresident) is not a discriminator for
promotion or duty assignment in the RC. Officers may also attend courses that contribute to the military proficiency of the
unit or enhance their specific abilities.
b. Nonresident courses. With the exception of the BOLC, military schools may be taken through nonresident courses,
TASS, and through distributed learning courses. The CCC is completed through a blended (distributed learning and resident) model. ILE is available in both TASS and nonresident versions. The career management officers at HRC (for Army
Reserve) and the state officer personnel manager (for ARNG) should ensure that officers are enrolled in military education
courses in a timely manner to ensure that all RC officers remain fully competitive for promotion and assignment considerations.
c. Civilian education.
(1) The standard for civilian education for officers in the U.S. Army is a baccalaureate degree. Most officers commissioned into the RC already have a baccalaureate degree; however, some officers do not. Effective 1 October 1995, in
accordance with PL 103–337, a baccalaureate degree from an accredited educational institution is required for promotion
to any grade above first lieutenant. Army Nurse Corps officers appointed on or after 1 October 1986 must possess a baccalaureate degree in nursing (accredited by an agency acceptable to HQDA) prior to promotion to major.
(2) There is a demand for warrant officers with an education beyond high school level to accommodate the changing
technological environment within the Army. The RC warrant officer corps must keep pace with these changes if it is to
meet the challenges of the future. Applicants for initial appointment must meet all MOS-specific additional civilian education requirements as specified for the particular warrant officer specialty. Applicants whose native language is not English must be tested and achieve a minimum raw score of 80 on the English Comprehension Level Test. Civilian education
goals are as follows:
(a) The ARNG goal for warrant officers is the attainment of a specialty-related associate degree or 60 college semester
hours by the eighth year of WOS.
(b) The Army Reserve goal for warrant officers is the attainment of a specialty-related associate degree or 60 college
semester hours by the 5th year of WOS, and a bachelor’s degree by the 10th year of WOS.
7 –9. Promotion
a. See AR 135–155 and NGR 600–101 for all promotion details. Law for promotion automatically considers commissioned officers of the RCs who are on the Reserve active status list for 1 year or more and when they have served the
required years in grade per the 1-year rule outlined in 10 USC 14301. AR 135–155 requires that each USAR warrant
officer who is in an active status be considered for promotion at such time as he or she has served the required number of
years in grade. Promotion consideration occurs whether officers are assigned to an ARNG unit, TPU, or a control group,
except for the Standby Reserve (Inactive) and the Inactive ARNG. The RC officers assigned to an ARNG unit or USAR
TPU have an additional opportunity for promotion to fill unit position vacancies at such time as they have completed the
education and time in grade requirements.
b. Warrant officers in the Standby Reserve (Inactive) and ING are not considered for promotion. Army Reserve warrant
officers assigned to TPUs have the additional opportunity to be considered for promotion to fill unit vacancies at such time
as they have completed the required years in grade, without regard to total years of service. The ARNG warrant officers
are promoted by the state AG to fill vacancies in ARNG units. Time in grade requirements for vacancy promotions are
contained in AR 135–155. Army Reserve warrant officer promotion time lines are shown in AR 135–155. ARNG promotion timelines are outlined in NGR 600–101.

36

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

Appendix A
References
Section I
Required Publications
ADP 1
The Army (Cited in para 2–4a.)
ADP 3–0
Operations (Cited in para 2–4a.)
ADP 6–22
Army Leadership (Cited in para 1–7a.)
ADP 7–0
Training (Cited in para 2–4a.)
AR 27–1
Legal Services, Judge Advocate Legal Services (Cited in para 4–17a(3).)
AR 27–10
Military Justice (Cited in para 7–7a.)
AR 135–18
The Active Guard Reserve Program (Cited in para 7–2b(1)(b).)
AR 135–155
Promotion of Commissioned Officers and Warrant Officers Other Than General Officers (Cited in para 7–9a.)
AR 140–1
Mission, Organization, and Training (Cited in para 7–5c(2)(b)1.)
AR 140–145
Individual Mobilization Augmentation Program (Cited in para 7–2b(1)(c).)
AR 350–1
Army Training and Leader Development (Cited in para 1–4a.)
AR 350–100
Officer Active Duty Service Obligations (Cited in para 4–15a.)
AR 600–3
The Army Personnel Development System (Cited in para 1–4a.)
AR 600–8–29
Officer Promotions (Cited in para 5–4a(1).)
AR 611–110
Selection and Training of Army Aviation Officers (Cited in para 4–11.)
AR 614–100
Officer Assignment Policies, Details, and Transfers (Cited in para 3–4b.)
AR 621–1
Training of Military Personnel at Civilian Institutions (Cited in para 3–5b(4).)
AR 621–5
Army Continuing Education System (Cited in para 4–18.)
AR 621–7
Army Fellowships and Scholarships (Cited in para 4–4c(4).)
DA Pam 611–21
Military Occupational Classification and Structure (Cited in para 2–5a(2).)

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

37

DODI 1300.19
DoD Joint Officer Management (JOM) Program (Cited in para 1–4a.)
NGR 600–100
Commissioned Officers – Federal Recognition
https://www.ngbpdc.ngb.army.mil/.) (Cited in para 7–1b.)

and

Related

Personnel

Actions

(Available

at

NGR 600–101
Warrant Officers – Federal Recognition and Related Personnel Actions (Available at https://www.ngbpdc.ngb.army.mil/.)
(Cited in para 7–1b.)
NGR 614–1
Inactive Army National Guard (Available at https://www.ngbpdc.ngb.army.mil/.) (Cited in para 7–2b.)
PL 99–433
Goldwater-Nichols Department of Defense Reorganization Act of 1986 (Available at https://www.congress.gov/bill/.)
(Cited in para 1–8a.)
PL 102–190
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (Available at https://www.congress.gov/bill/.) (Cited
in para 1–9a.)
PL 102–484
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (Available at https://www.congress.gov/bill/.) (Cited in para 1–
8a.)
PL 103–337
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Available at https://www.congress.gov/bill/.) (Cited in para 1–
8a.)
PL 109–364
John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Available at https://www.congress.gov/bill/.)
(Cited in3-13a.)
Smartbook DA Pam 600–3
Officer Professional Development and Career Management (Available at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbook-da-pam-600–3.) (Cited in para 1–4b.)
10 USC 663
Joint duty assignments after completion of joint professional military education (Available at http://uscode.house.gov/.)
(Cited in para 3–13f.)
Section II
Related Publications
A related publication is a source of additional information. The user does not have to read it to understand this publication.
Unless otherwise indicated, DA publications are available on the Army Publishing Directorate website
(http://armypubs.army.mil). DOD publications are available at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/. USC material is available at http://uscode.house.gov/.
ADRP 6–22
Army Leadership
AR 25–30
Army Publishing Program
AR 611–1
Military Occupational Classification Structure Development and Implementation
AR 623–3
Evaluation Reporting System
ARNG PPOM 18–020
Title 10 Army National Guard Active Guard Reserve Life Cycle Management Strategy and Plan (Available at
http://smtc.dodlive.mil/.)
38

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

CJCSI 1800.01E
Officer Professional Military Education Policy (Available at http://www.jcs.mil/library/.)
DA Pam 623–3
Evaluation Reporting System
DODI 1235.09
Management of the Standby Reserve
DODI 1320.13
Commissioned Officer Promotion Reports (COPRs)
DODI 1320.14
Commissioned Officer Promotion Program Procedures
Secretary of the Army Principal Official Guidance
Human Capital Management Reform
10 USC
Armed Forces
10 USC Chapter 36
Promotion, Separation, and Involuntary Retirement of Officers on the Active Duty List
10 USC 101
Definitions
10 USC 641
Applicability of chapter
10 USC 741
Rank: commissioned officers of the armed forces
10 USC 742
Rank: warrant officers
10 USC 12310
Reserves: for organizing, administering, etc., reserve components
10 USC 12731
Age and service requirements
10 USC 14301
Eligibility for consideration for promotion: general rules
32 USC
National Guard
32 USC 502
Required drills and field exercises
32 USC 709
Technicians: employment, use, status
Section III
Prescribed Forms
This section contains no entries.
Section IV
Referenced Forms
Unless otherwise indicated,
(http://armypubs.army.mil).

DA

forms

are

available

on

the

Army

Publishing

Directorate

website

DA Form 67–10–1
Company Grade Plate (O1 - O3; WO1 - CW2) Officer Evaluation Report
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

39

DA Form 67–10–1A
Officer Evaluation Report Support Form
DA Form 67–10–2
Field Grade Plate (O4 - O5; CW3 - CW5) Officer Evaluation Report
DA Form 67–10–3
Strategic Grade Plate (O6) Officer Evaluation Report
DA Form 67–10–4
Strategic Grade Plate General Officer Evaluation Report
DA Form 1059
Service School Academic Evaluation Report
DA Form 1059–1
Civilian Institution Academic Evaluation Report
DA Form 2028
Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms
DA Form 4037
Officer Record Brief (S&I, Commander, USAISC–ARPERCEN, 9700 Page Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63132–5200)
DA Form 4651
Request for Reserve Component Assignment or Attachment

40

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

Glossary
Section I
Abbreviations
AC
Active Component
ACC
Army competitive category
ACOM
Army command
ADL
active duty list
ADP
Army doctrine publication
ADRP
Army doctrine reference publication
ADSO
active duty service obligation
AG
adjutant general
AGR
Active Guard Reserve
AMEDD
Army Medical Department
AOC
area of concentration
AR
Army regulation
ARNG
Army National Guard
ASCC
Army service component command
ATRRS
Army Training Requirements and Resources System
BOLC
Basic Officer Leaders Course
CCC
Captain Career Course
CG
commanding general
CJCSI
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CONUS
continental United States
CSA
Chief of Staff, Army
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

41

CW2
chief warrant officer two
CW3
chief warrant officer three
CW4
chief warrant officer four
CW5
chief warrant officer five
DA
Department of the Army
DA Pam
Department of the Army pamphlet
DCS
Deputy Chief of Staff
DOD
Department of Defense
DODI
Department of Defense instruction
DOPMA
Defense Officer Personnel Management Act
DRU
direct reporting unit
EES
Evaluation Entry System
FA
functional area
FY
fiscal year
HQDA
Headquarters, Department of the Army
HRC
Human Resources Command
ILE
intermediate level education
IMA
individual mobilization augmentee
ING
Inactive National Guard
IRR
Individual Ready Reserve
JAGC
Judge Advocate General’s Corps
JDAL
joint duty assignment list
JPME
joint professional military education
42

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

KD
key developmental
MEL
military education level
MILPER
military personnel
MOS
military occupational specialty
MSAF
multi-source assessment and feedback
NGB
National Guard Bureau
NGR
National Guard regulation
OCONUS
outside the continental United States
OER
officer evaluation report
OPMS
Officer Personnel Management System
P
promotable
PB–GSIP
Performance Based Graduate School Incentive Program
PCC
Pre-Command Course
PCS
permanent change of station
PDM
professional development model
PL
Public Law
PME
professional military education
PMOS
primary military occupational specialty
PPOM
personnel policy operational memorandum
RA
Regular Army
RC
Reserve Component
ROPMA
Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act
SF
special forces
DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

43

SI
skill identifier
S–JDA
standard joint duty assignment
SMDP
State Master Development Plan
SMU
special mission unit
SSB
special selection board
SSC
Senior Service College
TASS
Total Army School System
TDA
table of distribution and allowances
TDY
temporary duty
TJAG
The Judge Advocate General
TOE
table of organization and equipment
TPU
troop program unit
TRADOC
U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command
TWI
Training with Industry
TWOS
Total Warrant Officer Study
USAR
U.S. Army Reserve
USC
United States Code
VTIP
Voluntary Transfer Incentive Program
WO1
warrant officer one
WOAC
Warrant Officer Advanced Course
WOBC
Warrant Officer Basic Course
WOCS
Warrant Officer Candidate School
WOILE
Warrant Officer Intermediate Level Education
44

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

WOLDAP
warrant officer leader development action plan
WOMA
Warrant Officer Management Act
WOS
warrant officer service
WOSSE
Warrant Officer Senior Service Education
Section II
Terms
Area of concentration
Identifies a requirement and an officer possessing a requisite area of expertise (subdivision) within a branch or FA. An
officer may possess and serve in more than one AOC.
Branch
A branch is a grouping of officers that comprises an arm or service of the Army in which, at a minimum, officers are
commissioned, assigned, developed, and promoted through their company grade years. Officers are accessed into a single
basic branch and will hold that branch designation, which is later augmented between the fifth and sixth years of service
with an FA. An accession branch admits officers upon commissioning; a nonaccession branch admits experienced officers
from the accession branches. With the exception of SF, all other branches are accession branches. SF recruits officers with
a minimum of 3 years’ experience. Officers will serve their first 8 to 12 years developing the leadership and tactical skills
associated with their branch. They will continue to wear their branch insignia throughout their military service. All career
branches are in the operations career field.
Branch or functional area generalist position
A 01A or 02A-coded position that may be filled by any officer, regardless of branch or FA designation. This is an umbrella
term used to collectively describe two subset categories defined as officer generalist and combat arms generalist positions.
Note. Previously termed immaterial positions.
Captain Career Course
This course is the second major branch school officers attend before company-level command. It combines the instruction
formerly taught in the branch Officer Advanced Course and the Combined Arms and Services Staff School. The ACC
CCC is supported by a 20–21 week PCS course. The branch phase of the course consists of 12–13 weeks of branch specific
technical and tactical training (depending on the branch) with 8 weeks of integrated common core instructions. The RC
CCC is a blended course that is supported by both distributed learning phases and resident phases at the assigned branch
school.
Career field
A specific grouping of functionally related officer, warrant officer, enlisted, and civilian positions into management categories having a common mission area. Career fields consist of officer branches and FAs, warrant officer and enlisted
military occupational specialties, and civilian occupational series. There are four career fields: operations, information
operations, institutional support, and operational support. (The term career field in lower case is also a generic term commonly used by military and civilian personnel when referring to their branch, FA, MOS, or civilian occupational series.)
Combat arms generalist position
A duty position requiring a broad understanding of combined arms doctrine, training, and force structure. A combat arms
generalist position is not identified with one specific branch or FA, but is limited to officers whose branches are infantry,
armor, field artillery, air defense artillery, aviation, SF, and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and who are currently managed
in the operations career field. These positions are documented in The Army Authorization Documents System with code
02A.
Note. Previously termed combat arms immaterial positions.
Functional area
An FA is a grouping of officers by technical specialty or skill, which usually requires significant education, training, and
experience. An officer receives their FA between the fifth and sixth years of service. Individual preference, academic

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

45

background, manner of performance, training, and experience, and needs of the Army are all considered during the designation process.
Functional designation
The process whereby officers are reassigned from an accession branch to an FA or other branch. This designation is made
by a formal panel within HRC that weighs factors including needs of the Army, officer preference, rater and senior rater
recommendations, education, training, and unique skills or attributes.
Officer generalist position
A duty position requiring a broad understanding of Army leadership, doctrine, policy, force structure, and management.
An officer generalist position is not identified with or limited to one specific branch or FA, but indicates that any officer
may be assigned to the position. For example, both armor branch officers in the operations career field and FA 45 Comptrollers in the institutional support career field are eligible to serve in officer generalist positions. These positions are
documented in The Army Authorization Document System with code 01A.
Note. Previously termed branch immaterial positions.
Skill
Identifies a requirement and an officer possessing specialized skills to perform duties of a specific position that may require
significant education, training, and experience. A skill can be related to more than one branch or FA. An officer may have
more than one skill.
Special branches
A grouping of branches and officers primarily concerned with providing combat service support and administration to the
Army as a whole but managed separately from combat service support branches. Special branches include AMEDD, Chaplain Corps, and JAGC.
Strategic human resource management
A broader, more holistic perspective on personnel management that extends beyond the fundamental life cycle functions.
Strategic human resource management focuses on the long-term vision of OPMS and links fundamental personnel management decisions to the desired end state. Strategic human resource management links character and leader development,
the new OERs (DA Form 67–10 Series) and the personnel life cycle management functions addressed in OPMS XXI.
While the initial focus of strategic human resource management is on officer personnel, strategic human resource management will encompass the total force of officers, warrant officers, enlisted, and civilian personnel.
Unified action
The synchronization, coordination, and integration of the activities of governmental and nongovernmental entities with
military operations to achieve unity of effort.

46

DA PAM 600–3 • 3 April 2019

UNCLASSIFIED

PIN 006986–000






