          Kansas Army National Guard
          Standard Operating Procedure 600-100-1




          Personnel – Officer and Warrant Officer


          Commissioned
          Officer and
          Warrant
          Officer Career
          Management
          Program




          Adjutant General’s Department
          Headquarters, Kansas Army National Guard
          Topeka, Kansas
          15 April 2021



UNCLASSIFIED
SUMMARY OF CHANGE
KSARNG 600-100-1 SOP 2021
Officer and Warrant Officer Career Management Program


This revision, dated 15 April 2021

o   Updates References to Publications and Forms (Throughout)
o   Added Enterprise Marketing & Behavioral Economics FA (58) to Operations Support Division (CH 2-
    1.b.(1))
o   Removed Electronic Warfare FA (29) from Information Dominance Division (FA 29 was rescinded
    effective October 2018) (CH 2-1.d)
o   Added SSC MSO information (CH 2-2.b.5)
o   Clarifies requirement for Commander KSARNG Medical Detachment, KSARNG Senior TJAG, and
    KSARNG Senior Chaplain to brief specialty branch officer assignments in conjunction with the LDAP
    (CH 2-3.c)
o   Specifies requirement to submit Officer Personnel Action Requests using the IPPS-A Customer
    Relations Management Ticket System with IPPS-A (CH 2-4)
o   Clarifies the authority of The Adjutant General and the LDAP to re-branch an officer without their
    consent (CH 3-2)
o   Adds responsibility for OPM to prepare annual accession and branching mission (CH 3-3.k.2a-b)
o   Adds details and branch detailing to branch assignment process (CH 3-3.1.2.b-c)
o   Modifies battalion command assignment consideration timeline (CH 3-6.i.(1)(a)(ii))
o   Changes timeline for officer assignment projections by MSCs (CH 3-6.j)
o   Adds annual suspense for T10 officers requesting consideration by the NGB Command Leadership
    Program (CH 3-6.k(4))
o   Revises Chapter 4 Promotions
                 -CH 4-2.a: Updates language and policy for streamlined promotions
                 -CH 4-2.b: Updates language and further defines BZ promotions and approval authority
                 for DCoS-A to allow FRB to reconsider officer within 120 days of board
                 -CH 4-4.c(2): Clarifies AGR DA Promotion Board Selection Delay
                 -CH 4-4.h: Requires Specialty Branch Promotion to be published IAW LDAP cycle
                 -CH 4-5.a: Adds languages and defines method of Warrant Officer promotions
                 -Table 4-3: Updates policy on appointment and promotion to CW2 for enlisted personnel
                 in the grade of E7
                 -Table 4-4: Updates language based on new policy
                 -CH 4-5.b: Updates CW5 Selection Board Procedures
                 -CH 4-5.c: Adds section on Warrant Officer Civilian Education Requirements
o   Adds requirement to submit joint discretionary points into Joint Qualification System within 12 months
    of experience completion (CH 5-2.a)
o   Removes references and requirements for DA Photos as part of KSARNG Board processes
o   Updates Enclosure A Sample Memorandum to the President of the Board
o   Updates Enclosure B Soldier Records Validation Memo
o   Updates Enclosure C Officer Career Goal Planning Tool
o   Updates Enclosure D Board Word Picture Scoring
 Adjutant General’s Department                                             KS SOP 600-100-1
 Headquarters, Kansas Army National Guard
 Topeka, Kansas 66611-1287
 15 April 2021                                                 Effective Date: 15 April 2021


                                         Personnel – General


      Commissioned Officer and Warrant Officer Career Management Program


                                                        Summary. This publication establishes
By Order of the Commander,                              policies and procedures for Kansas Army
KSARNG                                                  National Guard (KSARNG) Officer and
                                                        Warrant Officer personnel management in
ANTHONY V. MOHATT                                       accordance with Department of the Army and
Brigadier General, Assistant Adjutant General           National Guard Bureau regulations and
Kansas Army National Guard                              policies.

Official:                                               Suggested improvements. The proponent of
                                                        this publication is the KSARNG Director of
                                                        Personnel (DOP). Users are invited to send
                                                        comments and suggested improvements to
J. MATTHEW OLEEN                                        The Adjutant General’s Department, ATTN:
COL, GS, KSARNG                                         DOP, HQ, KSARNG, 2722 SW Topeka Blvd,
Deputy Chief of Staff-Army                              Topeka, KS 66611-1287
History. This printing publishes a revision of this     Distribution: B
publication and supersedes all previous editions.




Contents (Listed by paragraph and page number)

Chapter 1
Introduction, page 1
Senior Leadership Philosophy • 1-1, page 1
References • 1-2, page 1
Responsibilities • 1-3, page 1
General • 1-4, page 1
Applicability • 1-5, page 2

Chapter 2
Officer Personnel Management, page 2
Army Officer Personnel Management System • 2-1 page 2
Officer Career Management Cycle • 2-2, page 3
KSARNG Assignment process • 2-3, page 4
Officer Actions • 2-4, page 6

Chapter 3
Officer Career Management, page 7
Officer Career Management • 3-1, page 7




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                               i
Contents — Continued
Branch Transfers • 3-2, page 7
Appointments • 3-3, page 8
Counseling • 3-4, page 11
Mentorship • 3-5, page 11
Assignments/Reassignments • 3-6, page 12

Chapter 4
Promotions, page 16
Promotions • 4-1, page 16
Methods of Promotions • 4-2, page 16
Slating Board Process • 4-3, page 18
Promotion Considerations • 4-4, page 20
Warrant Officer Promotions • 4-5, page 23
Command Chief Warrant Officer Leadership Selection • 4-6, page 25
General Officer Nominations • 4-7, page 26

Chapter 5
Joint Officer Management, page 26
Joint Officer Management Overview • 5-1, page 26
Joint Qualification Levels • 5-2, page 27
Joint Duty Assignment List • 5-3, page 27
State Joint Duty Assignment List • 5-4, page 28

Appendix List
Appendix A. References, page 32
Appendix B. Leader Development Assignment Panel procedures, page 35

Enclosure List
Enclosure A. SAMPLE Memorandum to the President of the Board, page 39
Enclosure B. Officer Soldier Records Validation Memo, page 40
Enclosure C. Officer Career Goal Planning Tool, page 41
Enclosure D. Word Picture Scoring (1 – 6), page 43

Figure List
Figure 2-1; KSARNG Commission Officer and Warrant Officer Career Cycle, page 3
Figure 5-1; Path to Joint Qualification Level II, page 30
Figure 5-2; Path to Joint Qualification Level III (JQO), page 30
Figure 5-3; Path to Joint Qualification Level IV, page 31

Table List
Table 2-1; Company Grade Leader Development Assignment Panel; page 5
Table 2-2; Field Grade Leader Development Assignment Panel; page 5
Table 3-1; Time in Grade for Reserve Officers, page 9
Table 4-1; Below the Zone, Primary Zone (PZ), and Above the Zone (AZ) Grade for Promotion, page 20
Table 4-2; Minimum Active Federal Service Requirement(s), page 21
Table 4-3; Warrant Officer Minimum Time in Grade for Promotion, page 24
Table 4-4; Warrant Officer Educational Requirements for Current Grade and
           Course Enrollment, page 24
Table 5-1; KSARNG “34+1” Positions, page 29

Glossary, page 45




                          KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                   ii
Chapter 1
Introduction

1-1. Senior Leadership Philosophy
     a. KSANRG Officers should plan for a career that includes continuous learning and training along
with challenging assignments aligned with the three pillars of leader development: education, training,
and experience. They should also plan on service to the organization and not a set timeline or customary
career path to their Mandatory Removal Date (MRD). This expectation allows officers to serve in a variety
of ways and to lead Soldiers while operating at the national and state level as well as on state and federal
missions. There is no greater responsibility than a balanced, systematic process that accesses capable
officers, develops them for current requirements, and assigns them as future leaders.
    b. Officer growth and development is managed by commanders at all levels. The KSARNG requires
well-qualified, seasoned officers in every branch and rank. The KSARNG officer career management
process is the means by which officers are measured against each other for assignment in challenging
positions of greater responsibility and entrusted with leading organizational change.
    c. Leaders set the standard for integrity and character, are confident and competent decision-
makers in uncertain situations, prudent risk takers, innovative, empathetic, positive, professionally
educated, and dedicated to life-long learning. Successful officers in the KSARNG apply these
characteristics to lead change while maintaining a high level of energy and physical fitness.
     d. KSARNG officers should not expect to take a “customary” career path. While 18 to 24 months in
key positions has traditionally been optimal, performance and demonstrated potential in these positions is
what is important. Selection for and performance in command and other key developmental (KD)
assignments as a Captain (CPT), Major (MAJ), and Lieutenant Colonel (LTC) should be valued. The
same is true for AGR officers that have been selected to serve in Battalion (BN) and Brigade (BDE)
Administrative Officer (AO) positions. Assignments in multiple Major Subordinate Commands (MSC), to
include quality experience at the division level (within the KSARNG and our total force partners) is optimal
in an officer’s career prior to promotion to Colonel (COL).
1-2. References. Required and related publications and prescribed and referenced forms are listed in
appendix A.
1-3. Responsibilities
     a. The Deputy Chief of Staff-Army (DCoS-A) serves as the senior Army policy official for the Army
officer and warrant officer career management program and provides Army supervision for policy
formulation, procedures, goals, architecture, and standards.
    b. The Judge Advocate General (TJAG), on request, reviews the KSARNG career management
program to verify the legality of proposed changes and inquiries.
1-4. General
   a. This SOP provides specific guidance and information on the KSARNG Officer Career
Management Program. The intent is to provide policy and guidance for program management to
commanders, personnel managers at all levels, supervisors and soldiers.
    b. This SOP describes a system of Officer Career Management based on the placement of “best
qualified” officers to meet the force structure requirements. Best qualified officers are determined annually
through the career management board process.
    c. For the purposes of this SOP, the term “promotable” refers to officers who have been selected by
the State of Kansas for promotion and meet all of the requirements to be promoted, to include, civilian
and military education, height-weight, Army Physical Fitness Test (APFT)/Army Combat
Fitness Test (ACFT), periodic health assessment (PHA) and TIG requirements.
    d. Recommended changes to this SOP are forwarded to the DOP, KSARNG.




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                          1
1-5. Applicability. This regulation applies to commissioned officers and warrant officers in the Kansas
Army National Guard including Title 10 (T10) and Title 32 (T32) AGR officers and any field grade officers
requesting appointment into the KSARNG. This SOP does not apply to general officer grades.


Chapter 2
Officer Personnel Management
2-1. Officer Personnel Management
The KSARNG manages officers through categories and groups with similar functions to facilitate the
development of officer functional competencies required on the future battlefield. The design is not
intended to reflect where officers serve on the battlefield, but to align the functions and skills required.
The four functional categories and associated functional groups are:
    a. Operations Division (OD). This functional category gathers maneuver branches and functional
areas (FA) that have similar battlefield application or complementary roles. This grouping is comprised of
the following functional groups, with the branches and FAs listed:
        (1) Air Defense Artillery (14)
        (2) Armor (19)
        (3) Aviation (15)
        (4) Chemical (74)
        (5) Civil Affairs (38)
        (6) Corps of Engineers (12)
        (7) Field Artillery (13)
        (8) Infantry (11)
        (9) Military Police (31)
        (10) Psychological Operations (37)
        (11) Special Forces (18)
     b. Operations Support Division (OSD): This functional category gathers two currently existing
branches, Military Intelligence and Signal, with FAs that have similar battlefield applications or
complementary roles. Also included in this functional category are the functions associated with force
training, development and education that design, build, and train the force. The category is comprised of
the following:
        (1) Enterprise Marketing & Behavioral Economics FA (58)
        (2) Force Management FA (50)
        (3) Foreign Area Officer FA (48) (Active Component only)
        (4) Information Networks Engineering FA (26)
        (5) Military Intelligence (35)
        (6) Nuclear and Counter proliferation FA (52)
        (7) Operations Research/Systems Analysis FA (49)
        (8) Public Affairs FA (46)
        (9) Signal Corps (25)
        (10) Simulation Operations FA (57)
        (11) Space Operations FA (40)




                                 KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                          2
        (12) Strategic Intelligence FA (34)
        (13) Strategist FA (59)
        (14) United States Military Academy Professor FA (47)
    c. Force Sustainment Division (FSD): This functional category includes an integrated Logistics
Corps as well as the branches and FAs associated with resource and Soldier support functions. A part of
force sustainment but separately managed are the AMEDD, Chaplain, and JAG Corps:
        (1) Adjutant General (42)
        (2) Army Acquisition Corps (51)
        (3) Financial Management (36)
        (4) Logistics Corps: Ordnance (91), Transportation (88), Quartermaster (92), Logistics (90)
        (5) Special Branches: Army Medical Department (AMEDD) (Medical Corps [MC], Nurse Corps
[AN], Dental Corps [DC], Veterinary Corps [VC], Medical Service Corps [MS], Medical Specialist Corps
[SP]); Chaplain [CH] (56); Judge Advocate General [JAG] (27).
    d. Information Dominance Division (IDD): This functional category gathers two currently existing FAs
that have similar battlefield tasks or complementary functions along with the creation of a new branch.
        (1) Cyber (17)
        (2) Information Operations FA (30)
2-2. Officer Career Management Cycle
The KSARNG Career Management Cycle begins during the 1st Quarter (QTR) of each fiscal year. This
cycle is divided into three separate and distinct phases designed to manage promotions, key
developmental assignments, broadening assignments and competitive school selections.




             Figure 2-1 KSARNG Commission Officer and Warrant Officer Career Cycle

     a. Assess – The Assess phase begins 1st QTR and continues into the 2nd QTR of each FY by way
of the KSARNG board process. The KSARNG Board Process consists of the Selective Retention Board
(SRB), the Active Service Management Board (ASMB) and the Officer Career Management Board
(OCMB). Results from the SRB and ASMB are used to determine officers not to be considered by the
OCMB for slating. In addition, all officers who have a retirement request packet submitted to OPM prior to



                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                      3
the OCMB will not be boarded. The packet must be IAW the KSARNG IPPS-A Desk Reference Guide
and accepted via the IPPS-A CRM Ticket process to be considered valid.
        (1) SRB – The KSARNG annual SRB will be conducted in accordance with (IAW) National Guard
Regulation (NGR) 635-102 (2018) and applies to all traditional Army National Guard (ARNG) officers and
warrant officers including military technicians.
        (2) ASMB – The KSARNG Annual ASMB will be conducted IAW Life Cycle Management (LCM)
guidance and is applicable to T32 AGR officers with 20 or more years of qualifying service, and/or 18 or
more years of active service (AS), and COLs, LTCs, CW5s, CSM/SGMs, and 1SG/MSG regardless of
active service. The ASMB is coordinated and managed by the Human Resources Office (HRO).
       (3) OCMB – The KSARNG OCMB will be conducted IAW with the slating board process
discussed in Ch 4-3 of this SOP.
     b. Plan – The Plan phase begins during 2nd QTR and continues through the 3rd QTR of each FY.
During this phase, the KSARNG conducts its assignment and promotion selection process. Upon receipt
of the results generated by the OCMBs, Leader Development Assignment Panels (LDAP) convene to
develop slating rosters, discuss vacancies and potential assignments and make selections to fill current
and projected vacancies. This process encompasses the assignments at the company and field grade
levels and generates the following outputs:
        (1) Promotion Selection List
        (2) Command Selection List
        (3) Next FY Assignments List
        (4) Academic Year School Nominations (Army Command and General Staff College [CGSOC],
Joint Professional Military Education [JPME], Dual Status Commander courses, etc.)
NOTE: To be considered for resident CGSOC, Majors will not have more than two years TIG at the time
of packet suspense to NGB. Exceptions to this policy will be submitted through the chain of command to
ATAG for consideration. Captains must have a State promotion order with an effective date of promotion
to Major on or prior to the LDAP convening date to be considered eligible.
        (5) The KSARNG holds a Senior Service College (SSC) board each year in accordance with the
National Guard Bureau (NGB) published guidance. All shortfall seat opportunities are managed by NGB
and offered to states IAW their published guidance. Officers completing SSC will incur a 2-year military
service obligation (MSO) with the KSARNG which begins upon course completion. The KSARNG will not
consider an officer for an inter-state, inter-service, or inter-component transfer during the 2-year MSO with
the exception of assignments in support of the Division Alignment for Training Model.
     c. Execute – The Execute phase begins in the 3rd QTR and continues through 4th QTR of each FY.
During this phase, officers selected for promotion are assigned IAW the selected position; assignment
lists are published to facilitate future planning, and units update accordingly. The LDAPs reconvene to
further refine and validate the items generated from the “Plan Phase;” LDAPs determine any final
adjustments to the FY assignments as required or are determined to be “out of cycle” (i.e. retirements,
resignations, or transfers [ISTs, transfers to USAR, etc.]).
     d. Leader Development Assignment Panels are outlined in Table 2-1 and convene two times per FY
(2nd and 4th QTRs).
2-3. KSARNG Assignments process
     a. Commanders of the Major Subordinate Commands (MSCs) designate a Point of Contact for
officer management/assignments. Under current force structure this includes:
        (1) 35th Infantry Division
        (2) 69th Troop Command
        (3) 130th Field Artillery Brigade




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                        4
       (4) 235th Regiment
       (5) 635th Regional Support Group



Table 2-1

                         COMPANY GRADE
              LEADER DEVELOPMENT ASSIGNMENT PANEL
                           MEMBERSHIP
 President:         DCoS-A, KSARNG
 Member:              CoS, 35th Infantry Division
 Member:              BN Commanders
 Member:              BDE Administrative Officers (AOs)
 Member:              Deputy CDR , KSARNG Medical Detachment
 Non-Voting Member:   G1, KSARNG (or Deputy)
 Non-Voting Member:   G3, KSARNG (or Deputy)
 Non-Voting Member:   G4, KSARNG (or Deputy)
 Non-Voting Member:   Military Intelligence Senior Branch Mentor
 Non-Voting Member:   Signal Corps Senior Branch Mentor
 Admin:               OPM Representatives
 Admin:               HRO Representative

Table 2-2

                          FIELD GRADE
              LEADER DEVELOPMENT ASSIGNMENT PANEL
                          MEMBERSHIP
 President:           Commander, KSARNG
 Member:                CoS, KSNG (If Army Officer)
 Member:                DCoS-A, KSARNG
 Member:                DCG (KS) 35th Division (CoS if DCG is non-KS officer)
 Member:                BDE Commanders
 Member:                Commander, KSARNG Medical Detachment
 Non-Voting Member:     G1, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:     G3, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:     G4, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:     G6, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:     SAAO, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:     DPW, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:     State Surgeon, KSARNG
 Admin:                 OPM Representatives
 Admin:                 HRO Representative



  b. Officer assignments are managed utilizing the results of the company grade and field grade
OCMBs with input from company grade and field grade Leader Development Assignment Panels. LDAPs



                            KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                             5
convene twice a year to determine future assignments for the current and next fiscal year. Priority of fill
follows these general guidelines, but is ultimately based on projected vacancies, readiness and the needs
of the organization:
      (1) Modified Table of Organization and Equipment (MTOE) units (readiness and/or force
management purposes)
        (2) 235th Regiment (accreditation purposes)
        (3) All other Table of Distribution and Allowances (TDA) elements
     c. Specialty Branch Assignments – All AMEDD assignments are actioned IAW DA Pam 600-4
(2018) and Army National Guard (ARNG) AMEDD Officer Personnel Management Guidance. The
Commander, KSARNG Medical Detachment, is responsible for assisting the KSARNG DOP with the
assignment process. KSARNG TJAG determines assignment selection for JAG officers and assists the
KSARNG DOP with the assignment process of JAG officers. KSARNG Senior Chaplain determines
assignment selection for CH officers and assists the KSARNG DOP with the assignment process of CH
officers. The Commander KSARNG Medical Detachment, the KSARNG TJAG, and the KSARNG Senior
Chaplain provide their recommended officer assignments to the Officer Personnel Manager twice a year
in conjunction with the LDAP. Specialty Branch Assignments are briefed during the LDAP for final
approval by the ATAG.
2-4. Officer Actions – Requested through the MSC to the Officer Personnel Manager (OPM) utilizing the
applicable OPM Checklist. All requests will be submitted using the Customer Relations Management
Ticket System with IPPS-A.
     a. Inter-state Transfers (IST) – ISTs are initiated by the officer through the MSC to the IST
coordinator and processed by the officer personnel section. Officers wishing to IST coordinate through
their chain of command and ensure all items on the appropriate checklist are completed to ensure timely
processing of the request.
    b. Intra-state Transfers – Transfers within the state are initiated by the MSC using the IPPS-A
Customer Relations Management Ticket process IAW the results of the assignment selection lists
generated by the LDAP. Any out-of-cycle moves are actioned by written request from the CoC, through
the OPM, to the DCoS-A. Key to the success of these assignments is the forecasting by MSCs in
preparation for the LDAP process selection.
    c. Resignation – Soldiers desiring to resign their commission must do so in writing via memorandum
through their chain of command to the Adjutant General. Resignations are actioned by the MSC and
processed by the officer personnel section for separation orders and withdrawal of federal recognition.
    d. Retirement – Soldiers desiring to retire must do so in writing via memorandum through the chain
of command to the Adjutant General. Retirements are actioned by the MSC and processed by the officer
personnel section for retirement orders and transfer to the retired reserves.
    e. Specialty Requests (outlined below):
         (1) Extension beyond MRD – Requests for Extension beyond MRD for age, years of
commissioned service or AFS are requested through MSCs and considered by Deputy Chief of Staff-
Army (DCoS-A) and Commander, KSARNG for submission to NGB for approval. Requests approved at
the state level are forwarded to ARNG-Personnel and Readiness division (HRH) for final determination.
         (2) Branch Transfer Request – Branch transfers are requested through OPM and actioned IAW
NGR 600-100 (2020). Requests are considered during each year’s LDAP to ensure leader visibility as
well as future assignment consideration.
           (3) Functional Area (FA) Designation – FA designation requests are actioned IAW the annual
LDAP cycle. Requests for FA designation are considered during each year’s LDAP to ensure leader
visibility as well as future assignment consideration. Officers must recognize the limited number of FA
assignments within the KSARNG and how that may impact the officer’s career.




                            KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                          6
Chapter 3
Officer Career Management
3-1. Officer Career Management
The fundamental purpose of Officer Career Management is to provide qualified and capable officers for
assignments and promotion within the force structure of the KSARNG. To accomplish this task,
Commanders must provide officers with career guidance, timely training, and appropriate developmental
assignments in order to advance the largest number of officers to their maximum demonstrated service
potential.
    a. Purpose: This process is designed to ensure each officer receives the opportunity to meet career
progression requirements, or “gates”, in order to allow officers to serve at their fullest demonstrated
potential within the limitations of the state’s force structure. This process allows as many officers as
possible to advance through qualifying positions so that the state has access to the largest possible
number of experienced officers.
    b. Officer Development: An officer’s development includes education and assignments.
          (1) Civilian Education: Leaders counsel subordinates as to their responsibility for completing
mandatory education within established time frames. Commanders encourage and advise on continued
civilian education opportunities via individual initiative, tuition assistance, Military Education equivalency,
and trade schools.
         (2) Military Education: Leaders counsel subordinates in regards to the completion of mandatory
military education requirements for the officer’s current grade as well as advise them on the requirements
for selection to the next higher grade.
         (3) Assignments: Key development, branch development, and broadening assignments within
the total force are fundamentally necessary within an officer’s career to ensure they develop desired skill
sets in accordance with DA PAM 600-3.
3-2. Branch Transfers
Branch transfer requests can be initiated by and with the consent of the officer concerned, or without the
consent of the officer concerned, and actioned with the authority of the Adjutant General, based on the
recommendation of the appropriate LDAP and concurrence from the OPM. In some situations, the LDAP
may recommend a branch transfer for the betterment of the KSARNG as well as the officer. Proponent
approval is obtained via submission of a Branch Transfer Predetermination Request via E-Tracker to
ARNG-HRH-O.
    a. The role of the OPM in branch transfers is to manage assignments within the KSARNG and to
properly assign officers by qualification, grade, and Area of Concentration (AOC) / FA that match the duty
position requested.
    b. Valid reasons for a branch transfer to occur:
        (1) There are no qualified officers available to fill a vacancy
        (2) To meet state needs and long term career development
        (3) Changes in officer’s physical profile restrict serving in current branch
        (4) Change in force structure requiring new branch and AOC
    c. Standards for AOC and branch qualification can be found in both DA PAM 611-21
(https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbookdapam611-21/) and DA Pam 600-3
(https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbook-DA-PAM-600-3).
     d. On a case-by-case basis the DOP may request pre-determination through NGB (ARNG-HRH-O)
to the proponent of the branch to which the officer is being transferred, prior to assigning an officer to a
branch qualifying position unless there is published guidance stating otherwise.




                              KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                           7
3-3. Appointments – Procedures for processing commissioned Officers for appointment. This includes:
    a. National Guard Officers from another state (Interstate Transfer - IST) [Same Grade and Branch].
   b. Army Reserve (USAR) Officers in active status or in the Individual Ready Reserve (IRR) [Same
Grade and Branch].
    c.   Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) Officers.
    d. Reappointment of Basic Branch Officers.
    e. Active Duty (AD), USAR on AD, and Regular Army (RA) Officers [Same Grade and Branch].
    f.   Appointment of Officers from another component (i.e. US Navy, US Air Force, etc).
    g. Direct Appointments.
    h. Early Commissioning Program Appointments.
    i.   State Officer Candidate School (OCS) / Accelerated OCS Program Candidates / Federal OCS
   j. AMEDD officer accessions are actioned IAW NGBs AMEDD Officer Personnel Management
Guidance.
    k.   Responsibilities:
         (1) Recruiting and Retention - Officer Strength Manager (OSM):
         (a) Responsible for completion of all packets appointment/accession packets
         (b) Track prospective officer accessions
        (c) Locate positions for applicants in coordination with MSC Personnel/Administrative Manager(s)
(S1) and OPM
         (d) Coordinate with the applicants to complete appointment packets
      (e) Inform applicants they CANNOT PERFORM DUTY UNTIL PACKET HAS BEEN APPROVED
BY OPM AND APPOINTMENT ORDERS HAVE BEEN ISSUED, except as noted in 3-3k(5)
        (f) Coordinate with OPM on accession issues, determination of appointment type, and packet
items. Submit correct and complete packets to OPM for appointment by the appropriate suspense date
       (g) Ensure that any prior enlisted SM being appointed to the full time program has a Request for
Personnel Action (Standard Form [SF] 52, 1993) created for the position they are to fill is forwarded by
OPM to HRO for orders production
        (h) Coordinate with the KSARNG incentives manager to determine if any bonuses apply toward
the accession
         (i) Complete and process all required accessions waivers
         (2) Officer Personnel Manager (OPM):
       (a) Prepare annual officer accession goal based on NGB annual End Strength Objective and
Accession mission and historical separation trends
       (b) Prepare annual assessment of branch strength based on MTOE and TDA authorization to
determine accession branching objectives
         (c) Coordinate with Recruiting and Retention (R&R) BN Commander to determine accession type and
that the applicant meets the qualifications for appointment
       (d) Coordinate with R&R BN Commander on any packet issues that may hinder or delay
appointment
         (e) Produce memorandum if officer isn’t selected for accession into the KSARNG to be given to




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                     8
R&R for distribution
        (f) Accept complete and correct packets for appointment from MSCs and R&R. Only complete
and correct packets are accepted for the appointment process (i.e., state appointment order or Federal
Recognition Board)
        (g) Send appropriate documentation to HRO for appointment of full time former enlisted Soldiers
for proper annotation in all pay systems
    l. Considerations: The following issues should be taken under consideration prior to acceptance of
an applicant into the Kansas Army National Guard:
        (1) TIG: The applicant's time in grade should be taken into consideration when contemplating
appointment. Officers who are senior in grade may be under DA Promotion Board consideration or
already selected or non-selected for promotion. This impacts how long an officer may serve in the
prospective position prior to consideration for a higher graded position. Promotion consideration table for
reserve Officers is outlined in Table 3-1.



Table 3-1
Time in Grade for Reserve Officers
  Promote to     Minimum TIG         DA Consideration +
 1LT            18 months          *
 CPT            2 Years            **
 MAJ            4 Years            **
 LTC            4 Years            **
 COL            3 Years            **
+ Active duty Officers not selected for promotion may be considered for appointment into the Kansas Army
National Guard. Approval from the NGB is required for any Active Duty Officer twice non- selected
for promotion.
* A 2LT not qualified at 18 months may be extended up to 18 additional months, but only with approval
from NGB. If still not qualified at 36 months, Officer will be separated.
** Announced annually. Normal TIG is 4-6 years, subject to the needs of the Army


        (2) Branch.
        (a) Branch Qualification. Officers, other than initial appointments, are placed into positions in which
they are qualified. KSARNG makes every effort to fill positions with qualified officers but for force
management reasons may assign officers for broadening opportunities.
        (b) Branch Assignment. Every effort will be made to assign officers to a branch of their choice
when they are accessed into the KSARNG. However, needs of the organization based on overall officer
strength and individual branch strength will be used to determine an officers branch. The OSM and
OPM will ensure all commissioning sources can compete equitability for branching opportunities in the
KSARNG.
       (i) ROTC Graduates. Soldiers appointing as officers through ROTC are assigned branches
IAW their class OML, “wish list”, and needs of the organization. Priority for branching may be given to
ROTC candidates as an incentive to access into the KSARNG.
        (ii) OCS Graduates. Soldiers appointing as officers through the KSARNG State OCS program
are assigned branches IAW their class slating. The top 50% of the graduating class will be given their
branch of choice within their home MSC unless that MSC does not have their branch. The bottom 50% of
the class will be assigned a branch based on needs of the organization.
        (c) Branch Detailing. In order to balance career satisfaction (wants of the officer) and needs of




                              KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                           9
the organization (individual branch strength), Cadets and Candidates accessing in the KSARNG may be
offered the option of Branch Detailing. Branch Detailing gives the officer an opportunity to serve in one
branch during the first four to six years of their career, then transfer to a different branch of functional area
for the remainder of their career based on the requirements below.
        (i) The Cadet/Candidate is requesting a branch in which there is limited career potential past O3
and that branch has exceeded required strength objectives. This is determined on an annual basis by the
OPM.
          (ii) Is agreed to in writing by the Cadet/Candidate and the DOP using a Memorandum of
Agreement IAW AR 25-50. The agreement will be placed in the Cadet/Candidates Official Military
Personnel File. The agreement will list the detail branch (the branch the Cadet/Candidate will be
accessed in) and the control branch (the branch/functional area the Cadet/Candidate will transition to) as
well as criteria that would invalidate the agreement such as force structure changes, ineligibility of the
officer, needs of the organization, etc.
         (iii) Based on current force structure, AR, IN, MS, MI, SC, MP, and CM will not be considered for
control branches when entering into a Branch Detail agreement with a Cadet/Candidate.
       (3) ROTC Early Commissioning Program (ECP). ECPs from the ROTC program require
completion of the letters of acceptance found in Figure 12-1 and Figure 12-2, NGR 600-100 (2020).
ECPs may have an active duty obligation that requires the Officer to leave National Guard service upon
completion of their college degree and attendance at Basic Officer Leadership Course (BOLC) Phases II
& III.
          (4) Field Grade Officers. Field Grade Officers (MAJ and above) require approval from the DOP
and the MSC Commander prior to accession into the KSARNG. The officer’s file is immediately
considered by the next scheduled meeting of the field grade LDAP to ensure assignment consideration
is in the best interest of the officer, other officers, and the organization. Initial coordination is with the
OSM. Following review of the officer’s records, if the MSC Command wishes to accept a field grade
Officer, a written request must be submitted through the MSC Commander to the DOP for approval. The
OSM coordinates the request with the OPM office. Officers approved for appointment must appear
before the monthly Federal Recognition Board (FRB). The MSC Commander or Chief of Staff (35ID)
endorses the letter of acceptance for submission in the accession packet. If approved, the officer is
accessed into the KSARNG in the para/lin provided by the MSC.
        (5) Performance of Duty. Applicants will not perform any duty with the gaining unit (unless by
coordinated Split Unit Training Assembly (SUTA) with the losing organization) until OPM confirms that
the Soldier has been loaded with IPPS-A). Applicants requiring a FRB will not perform duty until after
approved FRB results are received by OPM. Units should not plan to have applicants perform
Annual Training (AT) unless OPM has received and approved the packet 30 days prior to the start
of AT. Exceptions to this policy require approval from the DOP.
     m. Packet Guidelines:
        (1) Packets are completed using standardized checklists provided by the officer personnel
section appropriate for the applicant’s status.
       (2) Packets contain ALL applicable items required from the checklist. The checklists are
developed from the requirements for appointment required by NGB or by a FRB.
        (3) The applicant is responsible for providing all checklist requirements. Assistance is provided
by the OSM, as appropriate.
        (4) To assist in determining status of Active Duty Officers, refer to DD Form 214, Block #2,
Department, Component, Branch and Block #23, Type of Separation. Block #2 states either USAR on
AD, or Army – RA.
        (5) Officer and warrant officer appointments in the Kansas Army National Guard are subject to
both state and federal regulations and are processed IAW NGR 600-100 (2020) or NGR 600-101 (2018).
        (6) Federal recognition - In order for an officer to be concurrently appointed as a Reserve officer



                              KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                           10
of the Army, the State action must be federally recognized. Federal recognition is the process which
ensures that officers appointed by the States meet the qualifications required for service in the Federal
armed forces.
     n. Temporary Federal recognition
        (1) Temporary Federal recognition may be extended to an officer who has been found qualified
by a FRB for appointment in the ARNG of a State, pending receipt of permanent Federal recognition and
appointment as a Reserve officer of the Army. Temporary Federal recognition may be withdrawn when
necessary at any time. Unless sooner withdrawn or official orders issued granting permanent Federal
recognition, temporary Federal recognition automatically terminates six months after the effective date of
the State appointment (Title 32, United States Code [USC] Section [§] 308). However, should the initial
period of temporary Federal recognition expire due to administrative processing delays, through no fault
of the applicant, a subsequent Federal Recognition Board must be convened to consider granting
another six months period of temporary Federal recognition.
        (2) Temporary Federal recognition is not applicable to the following:
        (a) Army Reserve warrant officers in the same grade and MOS
        (b) ARNG warrant officers transferring between States in the same grade and MOS
        (c) Field Grade officers
3-4. Counseling
    n. The best discussion of leadership and counseling can be found in Army Doctrine Reference
Publication (ADP) 6-22 (2019) and Army Techniques Publication (ATP) 6-22.1 (2014). The most
fundamental of all requirements is that a leader must regularly counsel their officers. The leader who
neglects counseling their subordinates is negligent in the performance of his or her duty.
        (1) The principal focus of counseling is proficiency, competency, and Army Values. Counseling
should cover values, character traits, knowledge, skills and behavior that an individual must improve to
become a better officer.
        (2) The primary tool for professional development is the proper use of the Officer Evaluation
Support Form (DA Form 67-10-1A, 2019), located in the Evaluation Entry System (EES), as the rater
and the rated officer develop performance expectations for the rated officer. Counseling sessions are
conducted on a quarterly basis and should include the tasks to be performed, expected level of
performance / standards, and any additional training or schooling required for success. It is the
responsibility of the senior rater to ensure this counseling is meaningful.
        (3) Quarterly counseling plays a significant role in the leader development process. Throughout
the KSARNG Career Management Process, Soldiers and their raters have multiple opportunities to
address strengths and weakness as they prepare for the annual slating board. Soldiers and leaders
ensure counseling(s) are consistent with ATP 6-22.1.
          (4) Officer Evaluation Report (OER) – OERs are completed IAW AR 623-3, 2019 and DA PAM
623-3, 2019. Army evaluation reports are independent assessments of how well the rated Soldier met
duty requirements and adhered to the professional standards of the Army’s Officer Corps within the
period covered by the report. OERs are processed and profiled by HQDA and iPERM’d with
electronically generated labels indicating the ratings have been profiled. Rating Chains will make every
effort to complete evaluations within the timeline provided in AR 623-3 ensuring the officer’s file is
current and up-to-date.
3-5. Mentorship
    a. Commanders at all levels are responsible for providing mentorship to their subordinates. This is
best accomplished through the timely and complete execution of the current officer evaluation system and
through unit S1/G1 personnel record management. The KSARNG is committed to the development of
each officer and facilitates the developmental process by providing Senior Branch Mentors to each
branch within the KSARNG force structure. A list of current Senior Branch Mentors is available by
contacting the OPM.



                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                           11
     b. Commanders, branch advisors and individual officers are all encouraged to make use of the Army
Career Tracker (ACT) to facilitate effective communication and dialogue. The ACT website can be found
at https://actnow.army.mil. This web based tool enables the individual Officer to identify their individual
career goals and the leaders and mentors to view that Officer’s career development plan and offer advice
and mentorship.
3-6. Assignments/Reassignments
    a. The primary goal of the assignment process is to place the right officer in the right job at the right
time, while developing the officer through a series of more demanding and enhancing duty positions. All
assignment decisions need to be fair and equitable, while meeting the needs of the commander and
looking to the future in regards to the development of the individual officer and the organization.
     b. KSARNG officers benefit from a series of progressive duty positions of increasing responsibility
and complexity to mature into seasoned leaders. Assignments are generated from the LDAP using the
results from the annual OCMB. Assignments are actioned IAW the assignments list published annually in
3rd QTR of and 4th QTR (if required) of each FY.
     c. Officer personnel managers (OPM) help shape the force management posture in the state by
advising leadership on force structure requirements and utilization of the available population of officers
at their disposal. OPM works in conjunction with the DOP, Deputy G1 and MSC S1 personnel to ensure
appropriate assignments for officer development.
    d. The primary factors influencing an officer’s assignment are:
        (1) Requirements (Grade, AOC, and military education level)
        (2) Demonstrated capabilities and potential of the officer
        (3) Professional development needs of the officer
        (4) Personal preferences
    e. Assignment Policies - IAW Chapter 4, NGR 600-100 (2020), the officer must become qualified
and branch transfer within 18 months of assignment, a waiver may be obtained up to 24 months with
TAG approval. Officers assigned for broadening opportunities are not required to seek branch
qualification. The LDAP makes every effort to select officers for assignment in such a way to facilitate
and sustain the unit readiness of the KSARNG.
     f. Attachments/Detailing – The KSARNG supports attaching Soldiers to units for the purpose of
unit readiness, training and career development. With respect to USR reporting, some soldiers may be
attached rather than reassigned ensuring unit stability prior to available year. Such action requires
monitoring by both organizations to ensure proper accountability of the officer for training and pay
purposes.
    g. Procedures – Officer assignments are generated through the LDAP process and are managed
by the OPM. Transfers are initiated at the lowest level using the IPPS-A CRM Ticket system and
published for action by the OPM. The OPM verifies all actions, ensure evaluations are addressed, and
ensures an officer will not be negatively impacted by reassignment.
    h. Assignment Opportunities
        (1) Table of Organization and Equipment (TOE)/MTOE – Assignment to a TOE/MTOE unit is
the top priority for the KSARNG to ensure the highest strength numbers and readiness rates for those
units.
NOTE: 35th ID primary warfighter leader (G-Staff) assignments are selected IAW the Division Council
Memorandum of Agreement. The field grade LDAP nominates KSARNG officers to compete for these
assignments early enough to ensure non-selects are not negatively impacted by non-selection.
        (2) TDA – Officers assigned to a TDA unit may be transferred to a TOE/MTOE unit and
attached back to a TDA for readiness purposes (refer to 3-5 e.)
        (3) Title 32 – Traditional Guardsmen may apply for Title 32 One Time Occasional Tour



                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                          12
(OTOT)/Active Duty Operational Support (ADOS) positions within the KSARNG. Officers selected to fill
T32 OTOT/ADOS positions are generally not eligible for promotion while on an OTOT order due to
controlled grade limitations (promotions to 1LT and CPT are excepted as controlled grades are not
required). As AGR promotions to MAJ through COL are managed by the CoS, KSNG, any exceptions to
this policy regarding promotion of OTOT/ADOS officers that require a controlled grade will be addressed
through the CoS, KSNG for approval.
        (4) Title 10 – Officers may pursue T10 opportunities, but the KSARNG does not have authority
to assign officers to these positions. T10 opportunities may be accommodated by:
         (a) OTOT/ADOS – Officers may apply for T10 opportunities through the Tour of Duty (TOD)
program managed by the KSARNG Mobilization Readiness Officer (MRO). This process facilitates unit
approval through the DOP, DCoS-A, ATAG and TAG. A TAG release memorandum is provided to TOD
prior to orders generation.
         (b) T10/T32 Swap – AGR officers may apply for a swap with NGB. IAW PPOM 17-015 the
TAG, or delegated authority, may also direct or require a T32 AGR officer to complete a swap as a NGB
professional development (PD) tour. This program, voluntary or directed, is managed by the OPM with
cooperation by KSARNG HRO and NGB Human Capital Management (HCM) for consideration at the
CG or FG LDAP. Approved swaps or PD tours incur a minimum of two year Permanent Change of
Station (PCS) assignment with NGB. T10 Officers coming to KS are slotted IAW the results of the annual
OCMB and the T10 SWAP Memo is forwarded to HCM 4th QTR of each year.
    i.   Assignment Limitations
         (1) Operational
         (a) Command Assignments. It is the responsibility of the senior leaders to select competent
commanders with the requisite training, education, experience and mentoring to successfully
command. All officers in the KSARNG are boarded annually through the career management board
process and demonstrate all three pillars of leader development (education, training and experience) for
command consideration. Command assignments are traditionally for two years but may be extended for
a third year upon request by the Commander and his/her chain of command. Extensions are approved
by the Commander, KSARNG and based on the needs of the organization. The Commander, KSARNG
retains the authority to remove and replace Battalion Commander’s for cause or misconduct without
convening the Field Grade LDAP.
NOTE: Full-time (AGR/TECH) officers considered for an extension of a command are discussed with the
HRO during the LDAP deliberations.
        (i) Company Command. Considered twice a year through the company grade LDAP’s
assignment selection process. Selections are approved by respective BN and BDE commanders and
validated by the DCoS-Army. Company command team selectees should be notified at least six months
in advance of the change of command. This affords the designee’s time to reflect, complete any
additional Professional Military Education (PME), be pre-positioned at the higher HQ, complete change
of command inventory, attend the Company Level Pre-Command Course (CLPCC) and prepare one’s
command philosophy. This time allows the designee to become familiar with the company and higher
headquarters.
        (ii) Battalion Command. Considered by the field grade LDAP’s assignment selection process.
Selections are approved by the respective BDE commanders and validated by the Commander,
KSARNG.. To the greatest extent possible battalion command assignments will be considered by the
Spring LDAP for slating during the following year. The following guidelines are provided for MTOE and
TDA battalion commands. Battalion command team selectees should be notified at least nine months
(preferably 12 months) in advance of the change of command. This affords the designees time to reflect,
complete any additional PME (Pre-Command Course Phases [PCC]), functional training and prepare
ones command philosophy. This time allows the designee to become familiar with the Battalion and
higher headquarters.
         (a) Education. O-5 commanders must be Military Education Level (MEL) 4/Joint Professional
Military Education (JPME) I complete. Branch Officers must be ILE complete to include Advanced



                            KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                       13
Operations Course (AOC) for both MTOE and TDA commands. Functional commands (Medical
Detachment) must have completed a MEL4/JPME I credentialing course. Credentialing courses include
AOC, approved FA courses, and specialty branch schools (medical, dental, legal, et cetera).
        (b) Experience and Training. Commanders must be qualified at the appropriate grade with
successful assignment in one O-4/O-5 Key developmental (KD) position. KD assignments are defined
IAW DA PAM 600-3 in order to determine qualification. Broadening assignment(s) enhance training and
experience. Broadening assignments may include but are not limited to other primary staff assignment at
the battalion and brigade levels, Division Staff, Regional Training Institute; or Troop Command.
        (iii) Brigade Command – Considered semi-annually through the General Officer Steering
Committee (GOSC). Selections are made by the Commander, KSARNG and approved by TAG. The
following guidelines are provided for MTOE and TDA Brigade commands.
        (a) Education. It is preferred and beneficial to the Force that O-6 MTOE command selectees
complete MEL1 (SSC) prior to assuming command. All other functional command selectees at a
minimum must have completed MEL 4/JPME I training and should be currently enrolled in the United
States Army War College (USAWC) Department of Distance Education (DDE) program and 50%
complete.
         (b) Experience and Training. Brigade Commanders should have completed a minimum of 12
months (preferably 18-24 months) of Battalion Command and must have successfully served in one O-
5/O-6 KD position. KD assignments are defined IAW DA PAM 600-3 in order to determine branch
qualification. Broadening assignments enhance training and experience. Broadening assignments may
include but are not limited to other primary staff assignments at the brigade and primary and assistant
staff assignments at the division levels, Regional Training Institute, Troop Command, and ADSW/
ADOS/ARNG/T-10 Tours outside the KSARNG.
NOTE: IAW ARNG Brigade and Battalion Pre-Command Course (PCC) Attendance Policy dated 11
October 2018, starting in FY 2020 the ARNG will have sufficient quotas to accommodate all incoming
command team members (commanders and CSMs) for each PCC phase. States should provide
sufficient time between command selection and assumption of duties to accommodate up to 6-7 weeks
of training for senior commanders. Attendance to the four PCC phases should be in accordance with the
priority outlined in the policy. In addition, Brigade Commanders and Battalion Commanders with Special
Court Martial Convening Authority (SPCMCA) authority must attend the Senior Officer Legal Orientation
(SOLO) course at Charlottesville, VA prior to assuming command. The Director, ARNG is the approval
authority for exceptions to this policy.
          (b) Key Developmental (KD) (IAW DA PAM 600-3, 2019) – Officers must aggressively prepare
for and seek the skills and experience necessary to prepare them for the next grade. KD assignments
enable the officer to continue normal progression towards more coveted KD positions at the higher
grade. This is especially important when considering officers with multiple branches. (e.g. An IN MAJ
with a secondary branch of AG may be fully qualified to serve as a BDE S1. However, unless the officer
has branch transferred to AG as his primary branch, the assignment does not qualify as KD. Additionally,
if the officer was AG at the time of his assignment as BDE S1, he is not qualified to serve as commander
of an Infantry battalion as he was not branch qualified as an IN MAJ.) Officers must fully understand the
qualification requirements by branch and grade as discussed in DA PAM 600-3. KD assignments qualify
officers by branch and are the building blocks for future KD assignment consideration conducted twice a
year through the LDAP’s assignment selection process.
        (c) Broadening – Broadening assignments are a purposeful expansion of a leader’s capabilities
and understanding provided through opportunities internal and external to the Army. Broadening is
accomplished across an officer’s full career through experiences and/or education in different
organizational cultures and environments. The intent for broadening is to develop an officer’s capability
to see, work, learn and contribute outside each one’s own perspective or individual level of
understanding for the betterment of both the individual officer and the institution. Broadening
assignments ensure continued development of the officer as their career progresses.
        (d) Functional Areas – FAs are a grouping of officers by technical specialty or skills other than
an arm, service, or branch that usually requires unique education, training, and experience. After



                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                           14
functional designation, officers may serve repetitive and progressive assignments within their FA. An
officer may not be assigned to more than one FA at a time. KSARNG officers may apply for FA
designation once promoted to captain. FAs allow Reserve Component (RC) officers to broaden the
scope of their experience and enhance both their assignment and promotion potential. DA PAM 611-21
and DA PAM 600-3 (outlines how officers transition to a FA. Officers who choose to designate in a FA
are encouraged to continue to choose assignments that continue to build depth in their chosen specialty.
NOTE: According to NGR 600-100 (2020), ARNG lieutenant colonels must have completed CGSOC to be
assigned to battalion or higher command positions and brigade executive officer or S-3 positions.
Additionally, lieutenant colonels with three years’ time in grade must have completed CGSOC to qualify
for assignment to any principal staff position at brigade or higher level commands. FA Qualification does
not qualify as CGSOC complete. According to Army policy, the credentialing course for Basic Branch
officers to attend the SSC is the Advanced Operations Course. Officers must make a conscious decision
when electing to transition to a FA. FA election may limit future career opportunities within the officer’s
basic branch, should the officer elect to use their FA education rather than pursue the Advanced
Operations Course (AOC) through the Command and General Staff College. However, the officer and the
KSARNG OPM may validate AOC credit for the FA courses that qualify.
        (2) Strategic – Command/Staff assignments at the O-6 level within the KSARNG are managed
by the GOSC. Strategic assignments may also be available through occasional tours with National
Guard Bureau or other T10 entities.
     j. The DOP facilitates each LDAP meeting by providing a list of current vacancies as well as the
projected vacancies/transitions provided by the MSCs in preparation for the LDAP. Assignment
consideration (excluding KD selection and assignments resulting from promotion opportunities) looks at
officers with 18 months of time in their current position. Projected moves must be forwarded to officer
personnel IAW the LDAP MOI published 90 days before the LDAP; the forwarding of these projected
moves assists the LDAP with selections and assignments to be published following each panel.
    k.   Assignments Based on Grade
       (1) Company Grade – Assignments for company grade officers are generated through the
LDAP’s assignment selection process and validated by the CoS-Army.
       (2) Field Grade – Assignments for field grade officers are generated through LDAP’s
assignment selection process and validated by the Commander, KSARNG.
NOTE: Promotion opportunities generated by assignment to the next higher grade are determined by
placement on the state approved SLATING ROSTER generated by the annual OCMB.
         (3) Warrant Officer.
        (a) Warrant Officers are subject to career management at the MSC level and DOP to ensure
optimal utilization.
          (i) Technical Warrant Officers will be assigned to fill authorized Warrant Officer MTOE/TDA
positions in federally recognized units of the ARNG. Prior to assignment, the DA MOS Proponent must
certify the applicant as qualified in the MOS for which the vacancy exists; or that they are eligible for
entry into the appropriate WOES and can qualify for certification within two-years of assignment.

          (ii) Warrant Officers assigned to XZ coded positions may only be assigned if qualified company
grade Officers are not available. When a rated company grade Officer becomes available Warrants,
filling these positions under this policy, will be immediately reassigned. Assigning a Warrant Officers to a
company grade officer position is not intended to replace the need for a rated company grade officer; the
Warrant officer is filling a temporary need in the organization. These positions should be used for no
longer than a three –year time frame. This guidance is also applicable when Commissioned Officers are
filling Warrant Officer positions.
         (4) Assignments are managed by the Senior (Sr) Warrant Officer in each branch. Sr Warrant
Officer Selection and placement is subject to approval by the Command Chief Warrant Officer with
oversight by the DCoS-A and the Commander, KSARNG




                                KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                        15
        (5) Title 10 Officers – Career management for the T10 officer is the responsibility of Human
Capital Management at National Guard Bureau (NGB). KSARNG is responsible for administrative
support. Officers requesting to compete for Command Leadership Program (CLP) opportunities must
make their request in writing to KSARNG OPM NLT 28 February of each year for consideration at the
FG LDAP.


Chapter 4
Promotions
4-1. Promotions – Promotions for officers and warrant officers are actioned IAW NGR 600-100 (2020)
and NGR 600-101 (2018). For the ranks of MAJ thru COL, promotions are managed at the State level
through the appropriate LDAP/GOSC utilization of the annual officer career management board (Slating
Board). All promotions are based on the needs of the organization as determined by existing
requirements and guidance from senior leadership. Promotions from 1LT to CPT are achieved
through BN/BDE Commander recommendation and boarded through the monthly FRB or Department of
the Army mandatory promotion board. Officers selected for promotion are added to the State promotion
selection list and promoted IAW assignment to the higher graded billet. Upon approval by the
Commander, KSARNG, the promotion selection list is published to MSCs for distribution.
4-2. Methods of Promotion
  a. Streamlined Promotions – Streamlined promotions are managed at the 2LT to 1LT and WO1 to
CW2 ranks. The following applies to all streamlined promotions.
        (1) Basic branch officers and AMEDD officers (AOC 67J or MFA 70 appointed prior to 1 May
1991) must attend a Basic Officer Leaders Course (BOLC) in residence within 18 months of appointment.
All AMEDD officers (except for AOC 67J or MFA 70) will attend an appropriate AMEDD BOLC within 24
months of appointment. The unit must consider all 2LTs for promotion and complete an NGB Form 78
(Recommendation for Promotion to 1LT/CW2) at 18 months, regardless if the 2LT is qualified and
recommended for promotion. If a 2LT is not recommended for promotion at 18 months, the commander
must submit an NGB Form 78 to OPM with a request for separation or a request for TAG of the State to
grant an extension to 24 months. If the officer was retained but not promoted at 18 months, the unit
commander must submit another NGB Form 78 at 24 months. If the officer is still not recommended at 24
months, the unit commander must forward a completed NGB Form 78 with a request for separation or a
request for extension through the State G1 for TAG approval to 36 months. By statute (10 USC 630 and
10 USC CH 1407, SEC 14503), no extensions beyond 36 months are authorized. This process is
required regardless of the reason for the officer being found not qualified for promotion. The officer’s may
be separated at any time after 18 months per 10 USC 14503. If the officer has not completed BOLC by 36
months commissioned service, separation proceedings must be initiated (10 USC 630).
       (2) ARNG Aviation 2LTs who have not graduated from an OBC/BOLC may be promoted at 24
months of commissioned service if currently enrolled in Flight School XX1/OBC/BOLC and not flagged
(NGR 600-100, 2020).
        (3) ARNG WO1 to CW2 is two years TIG with WOBC completed (NGR 600-101, 2018).
       (4) Early Commission Program (ECP) 2LT may be promoted to 1LT without BOLC complete at
24 months TIG (NGR 600-100, 2020).
         (5) AMEDD officers, regardless of grade in which appointed, other than Specialized Training
Assistance Program (STRAP) participants and MS officers with MFA 70 or AOC 67J, appointed on and
after 1 June 1986 are required to complete the AMEDD resident RC BOLC within 24 months. They may
be retained up to three years after appointment upon approval by the TAG. If the officer has not
completed BOLC by 36 months commissioned service, separation proceedings must be initiated (10 USC
630). STRAP participants do not have to complete the AMEDD resident RC OBC until three years after
the completion of their STRAP training program (AR 135-155, 2004).
       (6) JAG officers must complete JAG BOLC within 12 months of the date of appointment (AR
135-100, 1994).



                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                        16
         (7) Chaplain (56A) and Chaplain Candidate (56X) promotions to 1LT and Captain are managed
 IAW PPOM 17-018 (ARNG Chaplain Captain Certification Review (CCCR) Implementation Instructions).
 Unit Vacancy promotions to Captain are not authorized and must be submitted to NGB for the CCCR
 board process. Chaplains must complete Chaplain BOLC within three years of commissioning (AR 165-
 1, 2015).
      b. Unit Vacancy – All promotions are achieved by utilization of a valid vacancy. The intent of a Unit
 Vacancy Promotion (UVP) is to fill vacant positions with eligible officers in order to improve personnel
 readiness of the KSARNG. Special consideration should be made to the position and the officer being
 assigned to that position. Once assigned, the officer is not to be moved until Federal Recognition is
 granted at the next grade. For the purpose of this SOP, a Unit Vacancy Promotion (UVP) is referred to as
 a below the zone (BZ) promotion and should be limited to the officers demonstrating the highest levels of
 proficiency and consistently evaluated above their peers. Examples of demonstrated proficiency include,
 but are not limited to, strong potential statements such as “Promote ahead of Peers” or “Promote Now”,
 officers in the top 1/3 of their rank group IAW the year’s Officer Career Management Board slate, officer’s
 selected for Command by the Company Grade or Field Grade LDAP, or officers with strong
 recommendations by their current chain-of-command up to including the DCoS Army or ATAG outlining
 the needs of the organization and potential of the officer. While physical fitness and height-weight are
 elements of proficiency, they should not be sole basis for determining eligibility for UVP if the officer
 meets fitness and body composition standards at the time they are recommended for promotion.
         (1) Procedures for requesting Unit Vacancy Promotions:
         (a) Unit determines if the individual is eligible for promotion. The Officer must meet all
requirements for promotion to the next higher grade and be recommended by the MSC commander. This
recommendation must be IAW the promotion selection lists generated by the LDAP. For promotions to 1LT
and CPT, packets are submitted based on BN and BDE recommendation. Soldiers in the DA Cycle are not
considered by the FRB since their packet is being considered by a mandatory DA board.
         (b) Unit prepares the packet IAW the checklist provided by the KSARNG Officer Personnel
section and forwards for endorsement through command channels. Officers are not to be boarded by the
FRB prior to meeting the minimum time in grade eligibility for promotion. Officers currently being
considered by a DA Promotion Board are not eligible for unit vacancy promotions. Refer to DA Board
schedule for cut-off dates.
        (c) Promotion recommendation memorandums require the signature of the BN/BDE (O-5 or
above) commander to ensure that the officer meets the highest of standards and is best qualified for a unit
vacancy promotion.
         (2) Actions by the KSARNG Officer Personnel Section:
         (a) Conduct suitability screening prior to FRB to determine if officer requires endorsement from
 the Adjutant General. A complete review of the officer’s file is conducted to determine if any derogatory
 information exists which would preclude NGB from approving the packet (eg. DUI, Referred OER, civil
 conviction waiver, etc.).
           (b) Conduct Federal Recognition Board. Promotions which are disapproved by the FRB are
 returned to the MSC with a memorandum from the president of the board stating the reasons for
 promotion denial. If an officer’s packet is disapproved by a KSARNG FRB the officer must wait a
 minimum of 120 days before his/her packet may be resubmitted for FRB action; should an officer’s packet
 be submitted for a second consideration by the FRB, the officer is required to appear wearing the Army
 Service Uniform (ASU) at the discretion of the Senior Army Advisor. The DCoS-Army may approve an
 officer’s reappearance at the FRB within the 120 day period upon written request from the chain-of-
 command.
          (c) Forward complete packet to NGB for further processing with a copy of the FRB proceedings
 (NGB Form 89-1) and a copy of the State promotion validation memorandum. The officer may not wear
 the new rank on his/her uniform until receipt of the Federal Recognition order (NGB O122E) authorizing
 the promotion; frocking is NOT authorized IAW Paragraph 2-4 of NGR 600-100 (2020). The identification
 of “(P)” after the Officers rank in his/her signature block or other official document or format is not




                              KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                       17
authorized, except as explicitly detailed for evaluations purposes only (AR 623-3, 2019; DA PAM 623-3,
2019; AR 25-50, 2020).
        (d) Upon receipt of Federal Recognition orders (NGB O122E) OPM ensures promotion effective
date and grade are entered into IPPS-A.
    c. DA Select – A DA Selection status does not equal automatic promotion in the KSARNG. Being
DA Select by a mandatory promotion board exempts the officer from the scrolling process and from the
FRB examination. To be promoted in Kansas (T10 AGR excluded see 4-4 g.), the officer must be on the
state promotion selection list (MAJ – COL), assigned to a qualifying duty position as required by NGR
600-100 (2020), remain in an active status, be medically qualified for retention, have a passing
APFT/ACFT, and meet the standards of the Army Body Composition Program in AR 600-9 (2019). If a
Soldier’s file appears before a DA mandatory promotion board, the Soldier is prohibited from being
considered by the unit vacancy promotion process. Officers selected for promotion by the KSARNG
Promotion Selection Board who are also selected through the DA mandatory board processes are
promoted in accordance with the following.
         (1) OPM verifies if a DA Board has selected the officer for promotion at
https://www.hrc.army.mil/TAGD/Officer%20and%20WO%20Selections%20and%20Promotions
      (2) OPM determines if the officer meets all eligibility requirements for promotion. IF AN OFFICER
IS NON-SELECTED BY THE DA PROMOTION BOARD, THE STATE HAS NO AUTHORITY TO
PROMOTE. Officer must be boarded a second time by the Department of the Army.
       (3) Unit prepares the packet IAW the OPM checklist and submits to OPM using the IPPS-A CRM
module IAW the KSARNG IPPS-A Desk Reference.
NOTE: The promotion recommendation memorandum must be signed by the BN/BDE (O-5 or above)
commander.
        (4) OPM reviews the packet for completeness, produces a promotion validation memorandum,
and forwards the packet to NGB for federal recognition orders. State promotion orders have an effective
date based on the date the officer was fully qualified and in a qualifying positoin.
        (5) OPM forwards federal recognition orders (NGB Form 0122E) through the MSC to the unit
once they are received from NGB.
    d. AMEDD Promotions – All AMEDD promotion packets are actioned IAW DA PAM 600-4 (2020)
and ARNG AMEDD Officer Personnel Management Guidance. Packets are reviewed by the KSARNG
DOP and forwarded to NGB for Federal Recognition; MAJ through COL promotions are IAW the LDAP
selections and require the recommendation of the Medical Detachment Commander for processing.
NOTE: AGR AMEDD officers selected for promotion MAJ through COL must be on the annual promotion
selection list due to the limited number of controlled grades available; the KSNG CoS and the DCoS-
Army are the decision authority for control grade allocation to officers on the promotion selection list.
4-3. Slating Board Process
    a. The KSARNG conducts career management boards, by grade, each year during the first full
week of December unless otherwise indicated by official board announcement signed by the DOP. The
boards are part of the OCMB process and considers the files of company grade and field grade officers
assigned to the KSARNG.
        (1) Company Grade files consist of 1LTs with 12 months TIG as of 31 December of the current
year and CPTs. The OCMB generates a slating roster based on the officer’s file using guidance provided
by the Commander, KSARNG and the word picture scoring found in Enclosure D. CPTs on the state
promotion selection list to MAJ are moved to the field grade OCMB for consideration.
        (2) Field Grade files consist of CPTs on the state promotion selection list, MAJs and LTCs. The
OCMB generates a slating of all MAJs and LTCs using guidance provided by the Commander, KSARNG
and the word picture scoring found in Enclosure D. LTCs selected on the previous year’s promotion
selection list are considered by the General Officer Steering Committee.




                            KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                       18
       (3) AMEDD files consist of 1LTs with 12 months TIG as of 31 December of the current year to
LTCs. The OCMB generates a slating based on the officer’s file.
     b. The DOP, KSARNG is responsible for the composition of the OCMB. Every effort is made to
ensure quality representation of branch (Operations Division [OD], Operations Support Division [OSD],
Force Sustainment Division [FSD]) from each and minority representation regardless of the demographic
of the officers being considered. A balanced mix of “Traditional” and full-time unit support (FTUS)
KSARNG is maintained to the fullest extent possible.
    c. The DOP, KSARNG prepares the recommended list of board members and presents the list to
the Commander, KSARNG for approval. The DOP, KSARNG notifies the approved board members and
prepares a letter of instruction based on the commander’s guidance.
    d. Board Composition – OCMBs are composed of an odd number of board members, not including
the board recorder(s). The following applies to each board:
        (1) Company grade boards consist of a minimum of seven board members.
        (2) Field grade boards consist of a minimum of nine board members.
        (3) OCMB members must be at least one pay grade higher than those officers being considered.
         (4) Board members may be members of a different state’s Army National Guard, ARNG T10
officers, or officers from a different component.
       (5) The Board President must be a member of the KSARNG. For both the Company Grade
Board promotable 1LT to CPT) and the Field Grade Board (MAJ to LTC Board), the Board President must
have obtained the rank of COL.
        (6) The recorder(s) may be of any rank.
        (7) The following officers are NOT to sit as members of a board
        (a) An officer with a Suspension of Favorable Personnel Actions (Flag) for any reason.
        (b) An officer who may be considering the file of their spouse, child, or sibling.
        (c) An officer being considered by the board.
        (d) An officer who served as a member of the previous year's Company Grade OCMB (the intent
being no individual officer sits the same board for two consecutive years). The Field Grade board is
exempt from this requirement due to the limited number of COLs available each year.
        (e) The DOP, KSARNG or any officer assigned to that section, an assigned IG officer or a
Specialty Branch officer (AMEDD, JAG, and Chaplain).
    e. Promotion Selection List – Upon identification of the number of positions to be filled, the OCMB
results are provided to the LDAP for consideration. The LDAPs (Company grade and Field Grade) make
consideration of the projected vacancies and make selections according to the positions to be filled.
Selection is based on current/projected vacancies and the needs of the organization. A slating roster is
populated by the officers selected from the OCMB results then listed alphabetically and presented to the
Commander, KSARNG for approval and distribution. The promotion selection list is executed IAW
assignment to the higher graded billet. Officers occupying the higher grade position prior to the convening
date of the LDAP will have their packets submitted immediately. All other packets will be processed by
DOR.
NOTE: The promotion list will not be delayed due to an officer not having a valid position for assignment.
Should the position be occupied or the transfer delayed, the officer will be bypassed. Upon assignment to
an appropriate para/lin, the packet will be processed for promotion.
    f. Post Board Process and Actions – After each board the results are maintained and safeguarded
by the DOP and subsequently presented to the appropriate LDAPs for slating roster selection. OPM
consolidates all documents from the board (results, AAR, declination memos, etc.). The DOP, OPM and




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                       19
the President of the Board schedules an appointment with the Commander, KSARNG to provide a verbal
after action report (AAR). The AAR at a minimum consists of:
        (1) Any anomalies in the board which could cause the board to be voided.
        (2) Situations or issues which caused a file to be re-voted more than twice.
         (3) Any possible "show cause" files (substandard performance, misconduct, moral/professional
dereliction, or actions inconsistent w/national security [Department of Defense Instruction 1332.30, 2008])
        (4) A review of the results.
NOTE: The results of the OCMB are not to be published! Aspects, such as comments for the officer and
relative standing, may be released for mentorship purposes and career development, but the actual
slating is not be released except to proper authorities. The OCMB results are a tool for LDAP
consideration when selecting for promotion, command, KD assignments, schools selection, etc.
4-4. Promotion Considerations
     a. Zone of Consideration – The LDAP considers all eligible officers with a minimum TIG ending the
last day of the month proceeding the month of official release. The Commander, KSARNG may limit the
number of promotions from specific zones (Below the Zone, Primary Zone, Above the Zone) in order to
balance the needs of the organization by managing the force through the promotion process.
    b. The GOSC is the recommendation authority for LTC to COL promotions. Officers selected for
promotion to COL are removed from LDAP consideration and counseled by the commander, KSARNG
regarding the promotion, career management, and proposed retirement dates. This enables KSARNG
senior leaders the ability to actively manage the assigned COLs within the KSARNG.
    c. Officers selected for promotion who are not eligible for promotion IAW NGR 600-100 (2020) are
not promoted until the officer has met the necessary requirements for promotion. Factors such as flagging
action(s), lack of appropriate military education, and expired physical, awaiting administrative review by a
Department of the Army Stand-by Board prevent assignment of the officer to positions in the next higher
grade. If an officer is in command and requires a change of command validation, the DOP may bypass
the officer to prevent unnecessary stoppages of the promotion process. When the officer is transferred to
the appropriate higher graded position, the promotion packet is processed immediately.
NOTE: Officers selected for promotion must be in a valid MTOE or TDA position of the next higher grade
prior to packet submission for Federal Recognition. If the officer is a below the zone selection, the LDAP
must make every effort to facilitate the assignment prior to unit vacancy submission cut off determined by
the annual DA Boards Schedule.


Table 4-1
Below the Zone, Primary Zone (PZ), and Above the Zone (AZ) Grade for Promotion
                   Minimum Years in lower         Average Years in lower       Maximum Years in lower
 From       To
                    grade for promotion            grade for promotion          grade for promotion
                               BZ                            PZ                           AZ
  CPT      MAJ                  4                             5                             7
  MAJ      LTC                  4                             5                             7
  LTC      COL                  3                             4                        Until MRD

  Two years prior to an ARNG officers maximum TIG, they enter the DA Mandatory promotion process
   similar to USAR officers
  120-days (O5 & below)/180-days (O6) prior to the convene date of the DA Mandatory board, the
   State can no longer utilize the UVP (NGR 600-100 (2020))
  2LTs commissioned through the Early Commissioning Program are eligible for promotion to 1LT at
   24 months’ time in grade without the requirement to complete a BOLC (NGR 600-100 (2020))




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                        20
        (1) Promotion Declination – KSARNG officers who decline a promotion must do so by
submission of a memorandum of declination through the chain of command to the DOP, KSARNG 2722
SW Topeka, Blvd, Topeka, KS 66611-1287. Declinations have the effect of removing them from
promotion consideration until the next FY board results are published. An officer’s decision to decline
consideration does not adversely impact the officer’s potential for future selection.
        (2) Promotion Delay – KSARNG officers may elect to delay promotion for the purpose of fulfilling
OTOT or for assignment considerations for an AGR officer. Officers may delay promotion for a period not
to exceed three years (delay period requested in 12 month increments) from the date of promotion
selection. AGR officers are granted an indefinite delay due to controlled grade limitations. The delay
enables the officer to remain on the selection list until such time as the promotion opportunity is made
available. If the officer is not promoted at the end of three years, the officer’s file appears before the next
promotion Selection Board for promotion consideration.
    d. AGR Promotions – The CoS, KSNG and the DCoS-A have oversight and responsibility for all
AGR assignments and promotions as determined by the projected vacancies available for the
assignment. The CoS and the DCoS-A participate in the LDAP in order to assist with assignments
resulting in AGR and Technician promotions. The full time manning document restricts the placement and
grade of officers in AGR status. The KSARNG AGR manager validates and documents the number and
placement of AGR controlled grades for officers. The CoS, with the assistance of the DOP and AGR
Manager, determines placement of these AGR controlled grades based on organizational need with input
from the appropriate LDAP. There are six factors considered when placing AGR officers:
        (1) Controlled grade availability
        (2) Slating Roster position
        (3) Basic branch or functional area qualification
        (4) Amount of AFS
        (5) Command Leadership Assignment Program (CLASP)
        (6) National level T10/T32 swap assignment
     e. AGR AFS Requirement – Consideration of AFS is a critical factor in the management of the full
time force. In order to prevent officers from occupying senior control grades for an excessive number of
years, advancement must be congruent with years of AFS. This provides a larger group of qualified
officers’ greater opportunity for upward mobility. The following AFS guidelines must be met by existing
and newly hired AGR personnel. Exceptions to the AFS requirement are approved for key developmental
assignments (Full-time or M-Day; examples BN/BDE AO, Command) or organizational need and
recommended by the LDAP to the Commander, KSARNG for approval. Minimum AFS Requirements are
listed below in Table 4-2.



Table 4-2
Minimum Active Federal Service Requirement(s)
    Promotion to the GRADE            MINIMUM TIG REQUIREMENTS            MINIMUM AFS REQUIREMENT
 O-4 – MAJOR                                4 Years at CPT                       6 Years AFS
 O-5 – LIEUTENANT COLONEL                   4 Years at MAJ                      11 Years AFS
 O-6 – COLONEL                              3 Years at LTC                       16 Years AFS




      f. Upon completion of the assignment selection process and placement on an approved promotion
list, an AGR officer may be projected for the appropriate controlled grade, Support Personnel Manning
Document (SPMD) vacant position, and MTOE or TDA position of the higher grade. Once the AGR officer
receives a controlled grade and is placed in the proper SPMD position, their federal recognition packet, if




                              KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                          21
not in the DA Cycle, is presented before the FRB and forwarded for scrolling. Soldiers may not be
promoted into a military grade that exceeds the grade of their SPMD position.
NOTE: If a controlled grade is not available for the AGR officer, the DOP may slot the officer accordingly
and bypasses the AGR officer until such time as a controlled grade is available as determined by the
KSARNG AGR manager. Upon verification of a valid controlled grade, the AGR Officer’s packet is
forwarded for federal recognition immediately. Upon promotion the officer will receive a promotion
eligibility date (PED) equivalent to the date they were assigned to the higher graded position, and a DOR
equivalent to the actual promotion date (10 USC §14311).
NOTE: The LDAP considers the results of the ASMB when reviewing files of AGR officers for the
purpose of evaluating the officers’ ability to advance within the KSARNG as well as their ability to
achieve 20 years of AFS.
     g. Promotion for Title 10 Officers – T10 officers are members of the KSARNG; however, they do not
impact KSARNG promotions because they do not compete for or fill positions within Kansas. T10
promotions and assignments are managed by NGB. As such, T10 officers are not considered by the
KSARNG promotion Selection Board, and therefore not subject to the requirements of this policy. Upon
notification from NGB and receipt of the promotion voucher memorandum, OPM prepares and processes
the promotion packet for consideration in accordance with the promotion packet guidelines.
     h. Promotion of Specialty Branch – Specialty Branch promotions are managed internally and require
endorsement by the appropriate Senior Specialty Branch officer within the KSARNG. Specialty branch
officers (AMEDD, JAG, and Chaplain) are not selected for promotion through LDAP promotion selection
process, however they are promoted on the same cycle and Specialty Branch promotion selections will
be published per paragraph 4-3.e above . These officers are not required to compete with basic branch
officers for positions within the KSARNG and are therefore directly managed by the KSARNG branch
manager for AMEDD, JAG, and Chaplain branch(s). Medical professionals do not require Intermediate
Level Education (ILE) for promotion. All other specialty branches must meet military education
requirements in order to be promoted.
    i. Promotions with respect to “Fenced” positions – “Fenced” positions are Full Time Support (FTS)
authorizations allocated to fill statutorily mandated ARNG FTS positions or units at 100% of FTS
requirements. Fenced authorizations are subject to change based on statutory guidance found in The
National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) and CNGB and DARNG priorities for full time support within
the ARNG. KSARNG officers assigned to “Fenced” positions are not automatically promoted if the
position is of the higher grade. To be promoted in a “Fenced” position, the officer must be on the
promotion selection list and have a valid controlled grade to be promoted. Assignment to a “Fenced”
position does not alleviate the normal promotion requirements for AGR officers.
    j. Promotions for Mobilized Officers – Mobilized officers are promoted in accordance with DA policy
and NGR 600-100 (2020) A position vacancy for which the officer is otherwise qualified must exist and
remain vacant for the duration of the mobilization. Within 180 days after release from active duty
(REFRAD), the officer must be assigned to that position. The officer must be qualified for the position
considered and be on the KSARNG promotion selection list in order to be promoted.
     k. Exhausted List – Should the list be exhausted and additional slots become available due to non-
forecasted vacancies, the Commander, KSARNG may elect to open the slating roster for additional
promotions. Additions are added to the promotion selection list through discussions with the LDAP during
4th quarter. If more than one officer is selected, these officers are promoted IAW their assignment to the
higher graded billet, but not ahead of officers on the initial list. If an officer is not promoted prior to the
publication of the following year’s promotion selection list, the officer is positioned at the top of the
following year’s list. Multiple officers carried over from the previous year are positioned at the top of the
next year’s promotion list.
   l. Officers waiting on the results of a DA Selection Board lAW with Reserve Officer Personnel
Management Act of 1996 (ROPMA) may not be promoted (even if recommended by a state Selection
Board) until the results of the DA Selection Board are released. Should the officer not be selected by the
DA board, the officer is not eligible for promotion.




                              KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                          22
     m. Officers who are the subject of a pending investigation per AR 15-6 (2016), are not to be placed
in promotion opportunity vacancies until a command review is completed and flags removed per AR 600-
8-2 (2016)). The DOP and SJA review the pending investigation and brief the Commander, KSARNG.
4-5. Warrant Officer Promotions
   a. Promotion to Chief Warrant Officer Two (CW2), Chief Warrant Officer Three (CW3), and Chief
Warrant Officer 4 (CW4) are non-competitive and warrant officers are not subject to DA Promotion
Boards.
         (1) Promotion to CW2 is a streamlined promotion. Once the WO1 has reached minimum TIG,
the unit submits an NGB 78 recommending the warrant officer for promotion or requests a six month TAG
waiver to retain the Warrant Officer to 24 months.
         (2) Promotion to CW3 and CW4 are subject to the Federal Recognition Board (FRB). Federal
recognition board appearance is the only method of warrant officer promotions to the rank of CW3 or
CW4. As such, a Warrant Officer promotions are not limited or reserved for “below zone” officers (zones
of consideration are not used for COMPO 2 Warrant Officer Career Management). The provisions of
Chapter 4-2.b of this SOP do not apply. There is no civilian education requirement for Warrant Officer
promotions. Warrant Officers must achieve even higher levels of education as equipment, systems,
training, and missions become more sophisticated. Given the complexity of the operational environment
and their highly specialized role, Warrant Officers must commit to continuous self-development and life-
long learning to remain current, and improve their knowledge base.
        (3) Promotions for Warrant Officers. These promotions are based on needs of the KSARNG and
the recommendation of Warrant Officer’s first O5 commander. Warrant Officer’s recommended for
promotion must meet requirements IAW NGB 600-101 (2018). To be considered for Federal Recognition
following the KSARNG promotion to fill a unit vacancy, a KSARNG Warrant Officer must—
        (a) Be in an active status and DMOS qualified (see subparagraphs d and e below for
exceptions).
        (b) Be medically fit in accordance with AR 40-501 (2019)
        (c) Meet the height and weight standards prescribed in AR 600-9 (2019).
        (d) Have completed the minimum years of promotion service indicated in table 4-3.
        (e) Have completed the minimum military education requirements prescribed in table 4-4.
        (f) Have passed an APFT/ACFT within the time frame prescribed below
        (i) Six-months from promotion effective date for AGR Soldiers per AR 350-1 (2017).
        (ii) Twelve-months from promotion effective date for non-AGR Soldiers per AR 350-1 (2017)
NOTE: A Warrant Officer who has failed the APFT/ACFT or failed to take the APFT/ACFT should be
flagged in accordance with AR 600-8-2 (2016). A Warrant Officer is not eligible for promotion and may not
request Federal Recognition until successfully completing an APFT/ACFT and documentation (standard
or an alternate) has been provided.
        (g) Must be recommended by the Warrant Officer's fist O5 commander. Additional
recommendations from the CCWO, DCoS Army, or ATAG may be included outlining the organizational
need for promotion or the potential of the Warrant Officer.
        (4) Warrant Officers accessed from other components or services must meet the promotion
requirements of NGR 600-101 (2018), regardless of their promotion eligibility prior to their Federal
Recognition in the ARNG.
         (5) An ARNG Warrant Officer who has been appointed from the USAR serving in an inactive
status is not to be considered for promotion to the next higher grade until at least one year (12-months)
after the date of return to an active status, regardless to time in grade served. (NOTE: USAR
Reinforcement is not considered inactive status.)




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                       23
Table 4-3
Warrant Officer Minimum and Maximum Time in Grade for Promotion
     Grade       Minimum Years in Lower Grade
 WO1 to CW2                     2 years
 CW2 to CW3                     4 years
 CW3 to CW4                     5 Years
 CW4 to CW5                     5 Years

NOTE: IAW NGR 600-101 (2018) Enlisted personnel in the grade of E7, with a minimum of two-years TIG
on the date of appointment as a WOC, may be appointed to WO1 upon completion of WOCS, and upon
completion of WOBC may be promoted to CW2.




Table 4-4
Warrant Officer Educational Requirements for Current Grade and Course Enrollment


 FOR PROMOTION
                                          MILITARY EDUCATION REQUIREMENT
       TO

                       Warrant Officer Basic Course (WOBC), or equivalent DA MOS Proponent
        CW2
                       certification within 2-years of date of initial appointment as WO1

        CW3            Warrant Officer Basic Course (WOBC)

        CW4            Warrant Officer Advanced Course (WOAC)

                       Warrant Officer Intermediate Level Education (WOILE) & Warrant Officer
        CW5
                       Senior Service Education (WOSSE)
NOTE: Minimum time-in-grade does not exist for warrant officer PME attendance; warrant officers cannot
attend more than one PME course within a 12-month period. The 12-month separation does not apply to
WOILE and WOSSE follow-on courses.


       (6) Provided all education requirements of the previous MOS have been met, Warrant Officers
who require re-designation into a new MOS due to reorganization or inactivation remain MOS qualified for
promotion purposes for a period of one year from the effective date of the reorganization or inactivation.
         (7) Warrant Officers assigned IAW paragraph 4-3b (NGR 600-101, 2018) to XZ coded positions
may only be assigned if qualified company grade Officers are not available. When a rated company grade
Officer becomes available Warrants filling these positions under this policy, will be immediately
reassigned. Assigning a Warrant Officers to a company grade officer position is not intended to replace
the need for a rated company grade officer; the Warrant officer is filling a temporary need in the
organization. These positions should be used for no longer than a three year time frame. This guidance is
also applicable when Commissioned Officers are filling Warrant Officer positions.
        (8) Former Commissioned Officers in the rank below CPT, appointed as a WO1, not certified by
DA MOS Proponent for the appropriate Warrant Officer Basic Course (WOBC), must complete the WOBC
for specified MOS and must complete the required time in grade of 24-months, according (refer to Table
4-3). Former commissioned officer in the rank below CPT, certified by DA MOS Proponent, prior to
appointment, not needing WOBC are promoted to CW2 IAW military education requirements (refer to
Table 4-4).




                            KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                       24
    b. Promotion to Chief Warrant Officer Five (CW5) requires a centralized Selection Board process,
where the Selection Board determines the Warrant Officers eligibility for promotion. Promotion Selection
Boards for the rank of CW5 are only to be conducted based on the needs of the organization and a
standing promotion list is not to be maintained.
         (1) The Warrant Officer Selection Board evaluates suitability for military service in the grade and
MOS for which Federal Recognition is being applied for by considering documents located within
iPERMS; outlined with NGR 600-101 (2018) to include any letter to the President of the Board (an
example letter can be found in Enclosure A), Letters of Recommendation, and Officer Record Brief
(ORB). Additional documents may be considered to determine the suitability of an applicant for
promotion (flight records, civilian certifications, evidence of training, etc). Applicants must be notified of
the inclusion of any documents not located within iPerms.
        (2) The zone of consideration for promotion to CW5 is CW4s with four years time in grade and
MOS qualification on the first day of the month the board action is scheduled to occur. All CW4s with the
required MOS and within the zone are to be reviewed by the board.
        (3) The DOP, KSARNG:
        (a) Notifies all eligible CW4s at least 60 days prior to the Selection Board proceedings.
     (b) Prepares a recommended list of CW5 Selection Board members (must be approved by the
Commander, KSARNG) to review all eligible CW4 files up for consideration.
        (i) The recommended list of board members is comprised of at least five members; President of
the Board must have obtained the rank of COL, two voting members who have obtained the rank of COL,
and 2 members who have obtained the rank of CW5 in the Duty-MOS (DMOS) considered.
Note: At a minimum board members are not to serve on consecutive Selection Board or have been
flagged.
        (4) The Officer Personnel Section, KSARNG:
        (a) Does not prescreen CW4 files prior to the Selection Board review.
Note: Warrant Officers are strongly encouraged to review their personnel files prior to the board
proceedings in an effort to address any concerns or items which require correction. .
       (b) Notifies CW5 Selection Board members of their participation in the CW5 Selection Board
proceedings, provides a letter of instruction based on the guidance received by the Commander,
KSARNG.
Note: Members selected to participate in the CW5 Selection Board process are not released to
personnel (outside the Selection Board processes) until all board actions have been completed.
4-6. Command Chief Warrant Officer Leadership Selection
   a. The KSARNG Leadership Selection Board for the purpose of selecting the Command Chief
Warrant Officer (CCWO is a formal appearance/interview board that occurs at the discretion of the TAG).
    b. The board is composed of five members: The Commander, KSARNG, the DCoS-A (or O-6
equivalent), and three CCWOs from adjacent states (if possible). The current Kansas CCWO may sit on
the board as a non-voting member. The OPM notifies the approved CCWO Selection Board members
and prepares a letter of instructions based on the guidance provided by the Commander, KSARNG.
CCWO Selection Board members are not to be released (outside the Selection Board processes) until
after the actions of the CCWO Selection Board has been completed. At a minimum board members will
not serve on consecutive CCWO Selection Boards and are not to have flag(s) within their personnel file.
    c. The board selects the best-qualified CCWO, recognizing that this assignment requires significant
knowledge, experience, judgement, communication skills, and strengths as a primary advisor to TAG in
regard to all actions effecting Warrant Officer accessions, career management, and leadership
development.




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                           25
    d. The zone of consideration for CCWO is comprised of Warrant Officers in the grade of CW4 with 12
months TIG (first day of the month of the scheduled CCWO Selection Board) and current CW5s. The
DOP, KSARNG notifies eligible CW4-CW5s at least 60 days prior to the Selection Board proceedings.
The CCWO Selection Board evaluates suitability for military service as the CCWO reviewing documents
located within iPERMS; outlined with NGR 600-101 (2018) to include any biographical summary, letter to
the President of the Board (an example letter can be found in Enclosure A), and Officer Record Brief
(ORB).
4-7. General Officer Nominations
   a. General Officer Promotions are processed IAW AR 135-156 Reserve Component General Officer
Management (2007), NGR 600-100 (2020) and the General Officer Federal Recognition (GOFRB)
Guidebook published annually by NGB Senior Leader Management Office (NGB-SL).
    b. The nomination process occurs at the Adjutant General level and is reviewed annually through the
GOSC. The GOSC supports this process through recommendation relative to the officers eligible for
consideration and concludes with TAG nomination. This process is closely coordinated with the Executive
Officer to the Adjutant General and submitted to NGB-SL IAW with published suspense dates in the
GOFRB guidebook.
     c. Officers appearing before a GOFRB with a pending MRD may be assigned to a GO position prior
to the officer’s MRD, in order to be held in abeyance and avoid removal from active status. Upon transfer
to the GO position, OPM forwards a copy of the assignment order to NGB-SL at which point the officer is
assigned against the Headspace wait list until a GO voucher is authorized for the officer’s promotion. All
assignment orders for a GO billet are forwarded to NGB-SL upon publication to expedite the Headspace
wait time. Certificate of Eligibility (COE) publication is not a requirement for assignment order submission;
failure to submit the assignment order to NGB-SL delays the promotion timeline.
    d. Unless otherwise indicated, KS submits all nominations as General Officer of the Line (GOL) to
allow for assignment flexibility.


Chapter 5
Joint Officer Management
5-1. Joint Officer Management Overview

    a. The Joint Officer program is managed IAW 10 U.S.C. Chapter 38 – Joint Officer Management,
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1300.19 – DoD Joint Officer Management (JOM) Program
(2018), Chief National Guard Bureau Instruction (CNGBI) 1704.01 – National Guard Joint Officer
Management Program (2016), and CNGBI 1001.01 – National Guard Joint Force Headquarters-State
(2016).

    b. Current federal law (10 U.S.C. Chapter 38) does not require National Guard officers to become a
Joint Qualified Officer (JQO) prior to promotion to General Officer. However, federal law can be changed
by act of U.S. Congress and the President of the United States.

     c. National Guard Policy effective 01 October 2020 is that only officers with significant joint
experience will be nominated or appointed to NG General Officer T10 assignments (CNGBI 1704.01,
2016). Significant joint experience is defined as completion of JPME Level II or Advanced Joint
Professional Military Education and no less than 50% of the joint experience points required to achieve
joint qualification level III.




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                         26
5-2. Joint Qualification Levels

    a. There are four levels of Joint Qualification. Each joint qualification level consists of an education
and experience component. Experience points are accrued through a Joint Duty Assignment List (JDAL)
position, discretionary points, or self-nomination of joint experience. A maximum of six (6) discretionary
points can be awarded to an officer. All discretionary points (obtained through joint approved exercises
and courses) must be entered into Joint Qualification System (https://milconnect.dmdc.osd.mil/) within 12
months of experience completion.

    b. Joint Qualification level I is obtained by completion of the Basic Officer Leader Course. There is
not an experience requirement for this level.

     c. Joint Qualification level II requires 12 joint experience points and completion Joint Professional
Military Education (JPME) Level I. JPME I is awarded with the completion of the Advanced Operations
Course (AOC). See figure 5-1, Path to Joint Qualification Level II for a graphical representation.

    d. Joint Qualification level III, also referred to as a Joint Qualified Officer (JQO), requires 24 joint
experience points and completion of JPME II. JPME II is awarded through resident Senior Service
College of any United States Service School or Joint Combined Warfighting School (JCWS) / JCWS-
Hybrid. See figure 5-2, Path to Joint Qualification Level III (JQO) for a graphical representation.

        (1) Completion of a JDAL assignment in the grades of MAJ – COL awards the officer the
Additional Skill Identifier (ASI) of 3A.

        (2) When awarded the JQO designation, the officer is awarded the ASI of 3L.

     e. Joint Qualification level IV is only for General Officers (GO). It requires 24 experience points as a
GO and the CAPSTONE military education course. The experience points can be accrued through a GO
JDAL position, discretionary points, or self-nomination all of which must be as a GO. If the GO is selected
for a JDAL position they must server at least 14 months in the position for full credit of the experience
requirements with an approved tour length waiver (DoDI 1300.19, 2018). See figure 5-3, Path to Joint
Qualification Level IV for a graphical representation.

5-3. Joint Duty Assignment List

     a. Designation of a position as a JDAL position requires approval by the Chairman Joint Chief of Staff
(CJCS) and must be re-validated every five (5) years. States are authorized to submit positions to NGB
for consideration by CJCS. Approved State-JDAL positions provide joint credit the same as the T10
JDAL positions.

    b. Assignment to a Joint Duty Assignment (JDA) position is through either the NGB T10 or State
JDAL programs. NGB T10 positions require a TAG nomination of DA Select Majors through Colonel.
The one exception to the T10 program is the state managed Bi-Lateral Affairs Officer (BAO) for Armenia
in support of the State Partnership Program (SPP). State JDAL positions are managed through the LDAP
process.

     c. Assignment length of a Service-JDA (S-JDA) position is at least 24 months. The only approved
early release criteria that give the officer joint credit points for months served are reassignment to a
centralized command selection (BN-BDE), selection to attend resident SSC, or promotion to Brigadier
General (DoDI 1300.19, 2018). A tour length waiver must still be submitted for the officer to receive the
joint credit for months served.

    d. JDA tour length waivers must be submitted to CJCS from NGB at least 90 days prior to the desired
departure date IAW DoDI 1300.19 (2018). The officer is not authorized to vacate the JDA position until
the waiver is approved by CJCS.




                              KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                             27
   e. JDA tour length exclusions that allow for the officer to be reassigned without receiving joint credit
IAW DoDI 1300.19 (2018) are:

        (1) Serving in overseas S-JDAs that the tour length is less than 2 years IAW DoDI 1315.18

        (2) Less than full-time RC officers.

       (3) Reassigned for unusual personal reasons, including extreme hardship and medical conditions
beyond the control of the officer or the Military Service concerned.

        (4) Retired or released from active duty.

        (5) Suspended from duty and reassigned from the Joint Staff or a Combatant Command (CCMD)
pursuant to Section 155(f)(2) or 164(g) of Title 10, U.S.C. A suspension from duty that is a result of an
adverse action should be documented in the officer’s personnel record and in writing to the Military
Service concerned.

5.4. State Joint Duty Assignment List

    a. Each state is authorized a State-Joint Force Headquarters section IAW CNGBI 1001.01 (2016).
The positions authorized are referred to as the “31+4” requirements. The state is not authorized to grow
force structure when creating their Joint Staff.

   b. State Joint Element positions can be nominated to CJCS for approval as a JDAL position. If
approved, officers assigned to a State-JDA positions receive the same joint credit as a T10 position.

Table 5-1 depicts positions within Joint Force Headquarters that may qualify an officer to receive joint
credit.




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                          28
Table 5-1
KSARNG “34+1” Positions
                                                                                     Army Position
      Directorate                Position Title           Maximum Grade                 Code
      TAG Office                      TAG                        O8                      00B00
      TAG Office                  ATAG Army                      O8                      00B00
 Director of Joint Staff     Director of Joint Staff             O7                     01A/01B
           J1                          J1                        O6                      01A00
           J1                      Deputy J1                     O5                      01A00
           J2                          J2                        O6                      01A00
           J3              Director of Military Support          O6                      01A00
           J3                  Operations Officer                O5                      01A00
           J3                 Counter Drug Officer               O5                      01A00
           J3                  Protection Officer                O5                       31A
          J3                    Training Officer                 O4                      01A00
   Joint Operations         Joint Operations Center
                                                                 O4                      01A00
        Center                      Officer
           J4                          J4                        O6                      01A00
           J5                          J5                        O6                      01A00
                           State Partnership Program
           J5                                                    O5                      01A00
                                     Officer
           J6                          J6                        O6                      01A00
           J6               Plans and Policy Officer             O5                      25A00
           J7                          J7                        O6                      01A00
           J8                          J8                        O6                      01A00

NOTE: The determination to use existing Army Force Structure within the Army Staff Element to populate
the Joint Staff Element is at the discretion of the TAG and must be documented during the annual
Command Plan Process.




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                  29
Figure 5-1
Path to Joint Qualification Level II




Figure 5-2
Path to Joint Qualification Level III (JQO)




                            KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021   30
Figure 5-3
Path to Joint Qualification Level IV




                           KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021   31
Appendix A
References

Unless otherwise stated, all publications are available at:
Office of Law Revision Counsel United States Code; http://uscode.house.gov/
Army Publishing Directorate; http://www.apd.army.mil/
National Guard Bureau Publications and Forms Library; https://www.ngbpmc.ng.mil/
Army National Guard Personnel Policy Division; https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/personnel-policy-
division-arng-hrh
Kansas National Guard - Guard Knowledge Online;
https://states.gkoportal.ng.mil/states/KS/ePubs/default.aspx

Required Publications

AR 623-3
Evaluation Reporting System (06 June 2019)

DA PAM 600-3
Officer Professional Development and Career Management (03 April 2019)
Smartbook DA PAM 600-3 located at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbook-DA-PAM-600-3


Chapter I
Required Publications Not Applicable


Chapter II
Required Publications

DA PAM 600-4
Army Medical Department Officer Development and Career Management (30 March 2020)

NGR 635-102
Officers and Warrant Officers Selective Retention (01 September 2018)


Chapter III
Required Publications

Title 32, USC, § 308
Federal Recognition of Officers: Temporary Recognition (10 Aug 1956; 28 Jan 2008)

ADP 6-22
Army Leadership (31 July 2019)

DA PAM 611-21
Military Occupational Classification and Structure (19 July 2018)
Smartbook DA PAM 611-21 located at https://www.milsuite.mil/book/groups/smartbookdapam611-21




                             KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                       32
Chapter III
Required Publications Continued

NGR 600-100
Commissioned Officers Federal Recognition and Related Personnel Actions (06 July 2020)

NGR 600-101
Warrant Officers Federal Recognition and Related Personnel Actions (10 September 2018)

PPOM 17-105
Army National Guard (ARNG) Policy for the State Recall Request for Title 10 (T-10) Active Guard
Reserve (AGR) Soldiers Called to Mobilization, Professional Development, and T-10/T-32 Exchange
Program (ARNG-HRH Policy Memo)


Chapter IV
Required Publications

Department of Defense Instruction 1332.30
Separation of Regular and Reserve Commissioned Officers (11 December 2008)

AR 15-6
Procedures for Administrative Investigations and Boards of Officers (01 April 2016)

AR 40-501
Standards of Medical Fitness (27 June 2019)

AR 25-50
Preparing and Managing Correspondence (10 November 2020)

AR 135-100
Appointment of Commissioned and Warrant Officers of the Army (1 September 1994)

AR 135-155
Promotion of Commissioned Officers and Warrant Officers Other Than General Officers (13 July 2004)

AR 165-1
Army Chaplain Corps Activities (23 June 2015)

AR 350-1
Army Training and Leader Development (10 December 2017)

AR 600-8-2
Suspension of Favorable Personnel Actions (Flag) (11 May 2016)

AR 600-9
The Army Body Composition Program (16 July 2019)

AR 623-3
Evaluation Reporting System (14 June 2019)

DA PAM 623-3
Evaluation Reporting System (27 September 2019)

DA PAM 600-4
Army Medical Department Officer Development and Career Management (30 March 2020)



                            KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                     33
NGR 600-100
Commissioned Officers Federal Recognition and Related Personnel Actions (06 July 2020)


Chapter IV
Required Publications Continued

NGR 600-101
Warrant Officers Federal Recognition and Related Personnel Actions (10 September 2018)

PPOM 17-018
ARNG Chaplain Captain Certification Review (CCCR) Implementation Instructions (28 March 2017)

PPOM 19-029
Modification to NGR 600-101 TIG Promotion Eligibility (04 June 2019)

PPOM 19-042
Revision of Minimum Warrant Officer Education System (WOES) Requirements for Promotion Eligibility
(22 November 2019)


Chapter V
Required Publications

10 U.S.C. Chapter 38
Joint Officer Management

DoDI 1300.19
DoD Joint Officer Management (JOM) Program (03 April 2018)

CNGBI 1704.01
National Guard Joint Officer Management Program (19 October 2016)

CNGBI 1001.01
National Guard Joint Force Headquarters-State (29 June 2016)




                           KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                  34
Appendix B
Leader Development Assignment Panel Procedures

1-1. Introduction – ADRP 6-22 defines leadership as "influencing people by providing purpose,
direction, and motivation while operating to accomplish the mission and improving the organization."
Leader development is the deliberate, continuous, sequential, and progressive process and is achieved
through the lifelong synthesis of the knowledge, skills, and experiences gained through institutional
training and education, operational (on the job) experiences, and self-development.
1-2. Responsibilities
    a. The Commander, KSARNG serves as the senior Army policy official for the Leader Development
Assignment Panels (LDAP) management program and provides Army supervision of the policy
formulation, procedures, goals, architecture, and standards.
    b. The Judge Advocate General (TJAG), on request, reviews the KSARNG career management
program to verify the legality of proposed changes and inquiries.
    c. Final decision authority rests with the Commander, Kansas Army National Guard for all LDAP
selections/assignments.
1-3. General – This appendix provides specific guidance for LDAP conduct and associated outputs.
    a. LDAPs convene twice a year to develop and refine a centralized selection list for officers
assigned to the KSARNG. Upon receipt of the results generated by the OCMBs, Leader Development
Assignment Panels (LDAP) convene to develop slating rosters, select for promotion, make selections for
command, key developmental (KD) assignments, broadening assignments and academic year school
selections.
NOTE: LDAP members are required to attend the LDAP sessions. Members unavailable for participation
must request in writing to the Commander, KSARNG for permission to have XO participate with full
authority. 100% LDAP representation is mandatory.
     b. During 4th quarter (fall) LDAPs reconvene to further refine and validate the outputs generated
from the Assignment Selection & Promotion Process conducted in 2nd quarter (spring). In the event one of
the lists needs to be amended, the appropriate LDAP considers any new or additional information and
makes final adjustments to the list.
   c. This LDAP process encompasses the assignments at the company and field grade levels and
generates the following outputs:
       (1) Promotion Selection List
       (2) Command Selection List
       (3) Next FY Assignments List
       (4) Academic Year School Selections (CGSOC, Dual Status Commander courses, etc)
1-4. LDAP Responsibilities
    a. OPM
       (1) Establish LDAP suspense dates
       (2) Notify MSCs and coordinate meeting to scrub rosters IAW published LDAP MOI
       (3) Draft guidance for Commander, KSARNG
       (4) LDAP appointment order
       (5) Provide OCMB Results
       (6) Projected promotion opportunities by grade




                            KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                     35
      (7) Roster of current vacancies as well as projected vacancies by MSC with the list of eligible
personnel (e.g. Rank, Branch, Status, etc.)
         (8) Expertise on discussions focused on functional and branch qualifying assignments
         (9) Generate results and publish upon approval from Commander, KSARNG
         (10) Facilitate AAR for process improvement
    b. MSCs – (S: TBD by the DOP each year)
         (1) Meet with OPM to verify roster of assigned officers
      (2) Consolidate additional documents for board review (Career Goal Planning Tool found in
Enclosure C)
         (3) Provide projected command opportunities 12 to 18 months out
NOTE: It is customary for battalion commanders and brigade AOs to consult their brigade commanders
regarding command and other key developmental nominations prior to the LDAP. This is intended to
facilitate total command involvement in the nomination process as well as to ensure a consistent
message is presented to the LDAP during command selection.
         (4) Be prepared to discuss requests for command extensions 12 to 18 months out
         (5) Provide list of KD opportunities 12 to 18 months out (IAW DA PAM 600-3)
        (6) Provide list of broadening opportunities (as applicable to the positions within the KSARNG
force structure)
       (7) Provide list of pending transfers, retirements, ISTs etc. This serves to provide the LDAP
accurate information for the assignment/selection process by each LDAP
1-5. LDAP Conduct
   a. When a board is convened, the board members shall take an oath. The oath articulates the board
member responsibilities and precludes them from divulging the proceedings and results of the board
except to proper authorities.
     b. If determined necessary by the President of the Board, the Recorder provides a briefing to
explain the consideration process. The President may provide additional guidance and clarify selection
criteria for assignment selection.
    c.    Company Grade LDAP outputs
         (1) Action 1: TOE Command Selection
         (2) Action 2: TDA Command Selection
         (3) Action 3: Primary Staff Assignments (S1, S2, S6, etc)
         (4) Action 4: Broadening Opportunities
         (5) Action 5: Specialty Selections (Broadening Opportunities if available)
    d. Field Grade LDAP outputs
         (1) Action 1: Promotion Selection List (MAJ - LTC)
         (2) Action 2: MTOE BN Command Selection
         (3) Action 3: TDA BN Command Selection
         (4) Action 4: MTOE BDE KD Assignments (S3, XO, SPO)
         (5) Action 5: MTOE BDE KD Assignments (Staff – S1, S2, S4, S6)
         (6) Action 6: TDA BDE KD Assignments (S3, XO)
         (7) Action 7: TDA BDE KD Assignments (Staff – S1, S2, S4, S6)



                              KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                       36
       (8) Action 8: Broadening Opportunities (TDA, T10, Total Force assignments)
       (9) Action 9: Academic Year School Selections (Resident CGSOC)
       (10) Action 10: Specialty Selections (Broadening Opportunities if available)
       (11) Action 11: T32/10 SWAP opportunities and designation
    e. Post Board Process and Actions – Upon completion of the LDAP selection process, the outputs are
presented to the Commander, KSARNG for approval. The results are maintained within the G1 and
presented to KSARNG Senior Leaders for review. OPM consolidates all documents and schedule an
appointment with the Adjutant General to provide a verbal after action report (AAR).
    f. Authorizations resulting from mobilizations – In the event LDAP members are unable to participate
in the LDAP process due to mobilization, the board president may delegate or approve suggested
representation or assign the DOP to serve as proxy for the deployed member.




                            KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                                     37
1-6. Leader Development Assignment Panels Member Composition


                         COMPANY GRADE
              LEADER DEVELOPMENT ASSIGNMENT PANEL
                           MEMBERSHIP
 President:          DCoS-A, KSARNG
 Member:              CoS, 35th Infantry Division
 Member:              BN Commanders
 Member:              BDE Administrative Officers (AOs)
 Member:              Deputy CDR , KSARNG Medical Detachment
 Non-Voting Member:   G1 KSARNG (or deputy)
 Non-Voting Member:   G3, KSARNG (or deputy)
 Non-Voting Member:   G4, KSARNG (or deputy)
 Non-Voting Member:   Military Intelligence Senior Branch Mentor
 Non-Voting Member:   Signal Corps Senior Branch Mentor
 Admin:               OPM Representatives
 Admin:               HRO Representative


                          FIELD GRADE
              LEADER DEVELOPMENT ASSIGNMENT PANEL
                          MEMBERSHIP
 President:          Commander, KSARNG
 Member:              CoS, KSNG (If Army Officer)
 Member:              DCoS-A, KSARNG
 Member:              DCG (KS) 35th Division (CoS if DCG is non-KS officer)
 Member:              BDE Commanders
 Member:              Commander, KSARNG Medical Detachment
 Non-Voting Member:   G1, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:   G3, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:   G4, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:   G6, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:   SAAO, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:   DPW, KSARNG
 Non-Voting Member:   State Surgeon, KSARNG
 Admin:               OPM Representatives
 Admin:               HRO Representative




                       KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021                   38
Enclosure A – SAMPLE Memorandum to the President of the Board
.




                    KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021        39
Enclosure B – Soldier Records Validation Memo




                    KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021   40
Enclosure C – Officer Career Goal Planning Tool




                     KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021   41
KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021   42
Enclosure D – Word Picture Scoring



                                 FIELD GRADE




                    KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021   43
          COMPANY GRADE




KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021   44
Glossary
Abbreviations

1LT             First Lieutenant
2LT             Second Lieutenant
AAR             after action report
AD              Active Duty
ADC             Assistant Division Commander
ADOS            Active Duty Operational Support
ADRP            Army Doctrine Reference Publication
AFS             Active Federal Service
AGR             Active Guard Reserve
AMEDD           Army Medical Department
AN              Nurse Corps
AO              Administrative Officer
AOC             Area of Concentration, Advanced Operations Course
ACFT            Army Combat Fitness Test
APFT            Army Physical Fitness test
AR              Army Regulation
ARNG            Army National Guard
ARNG-HRH-W      Army National Guard Warrant Officer Branch
ASI             Additional Skill Identifier
ASMB            Active Service Management Board
ASU             Army Service Uniform
AT              Annual Training
ATAG            Assistant Adjutant General - Army
BAO             Bi-Lateral Affairs Officer
BDE             Brigade
BN              Battalion
BOLC            Basic Officer Leadership Course
BZ              below the zone
CCWO            Command Chief Warrant Officer
CEO             Certificate of Eligibility
CGSOC           Command and General Staff Officer Course
CJCS            Chairman Joint Chief of Staff
CLASP           Command Leadership Assignment Program
CLPCC           Company Level Pre-Command Course
CNGBI           Chief National Guard Bureau Instruction
COL             Colonel
CoS             Chief of Staff
CPT             Captain
CSA             Chief of Staff Army
CRM             Customer Relations Management
CW2             Chief Warrant Officer Two
CW2             Chief Warrant Officer Two
CW3             Chief Warrant Officer Three
CW3             Chief Warrant Officer Three
CW4             Chief Warrant Officer Four
CW4             Chief Warrant Officer Four
CW5             Chief Warrant Officer Five




                        KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021        45
CW5      Chief Warrant Officer Five
DA       Department of the Army
DA PAM   Department of the Army Pamphlet
DC       Dental Corps
DCoS-A   Deputy Chief of Staff-Army
DDE      Department of Defense Education
DoDI     Department of Defense Instruction
DOP      Director of Personnel
DOR      Date of Rank (Known as Grade Entry Date in IPPS-A)
EES      Evaluation Entry System
E-JDA    Experience - Joint Duty Assignment
FAO      Foreign Affairs Officer
FAO      Functional Area
FLAG     Suspense Of Favorable Personnel Actions
FRB      Federal Recondition Board
FS       Force Sustainment
FSD      Force Sustainment Division
FTUS     full-time unit support
FY       Fiscal Year
GOSC     General Officer Steering Committee
HCM      Human Capital Management
HRH      Personnel and Readiness Division
HRO      Human Resources Office
IAW      In Accordance With
IPPS-A   Integrated Personnel and Pay System—Army
IRR      Individual ready Reserve
ISR      Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
JAG      Judge Advocate Corps
JCWS     Joint Combined Warfighting School
JDA      Joint Duty Assignment
JDAL     Joint Duty Assignment List
JOM      Joint Officer Management
JDA      Joint Duty Assignment
JPME     Joint Military Education Level
KD       Key Developmental
KSARNG   Kansas Army National Guard
LCM      Life Cycle Management
LDAP     Leader Development Assignment Panels
LOA      Letter of Acceptance
LTC      Lieutenant Colonel
MAJ      Major
MC       Medical Corps
MEL      Military Education Level
OD       Operations Division
MOS      Military Occupational Specialty
MRD      Mandatory Removal Date
MRO      Mobilization Readiness Officer
MS       Medical Service Corps
MSC      Major Subordinate Command
MTOE     Modified Table of Organization and Equipment




                 KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021         46
NG        National Guard
NGB       National Guard Bureau
NGB-GO    National Guard Bureau - General Officer
NLT       no later than
OCMB      Officer Career Management Board
OCS       Officer Candidate School
OD        Operational Division
OPM       Officer Personnel Management
OS        Operations Support
OSD       Operational Support Division
OSM       Officer Strength Manager
OTOT      One Time Occasional Tour
PAR       Personnel Action Requests
PCC       Pre-Command Course
PHA       Periodic Health Assessment
PISB      Personnel Information Service Branch
PME       Professional Military Education
PPOM      Personnel Policy Operational Memorandum
QTR       Quarter
R&R       Recruiting and Retention
RA        Regular Army
RC        Reserve Component
REFRAD    release from active duty
ROPMA     Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act
ROTC      Reserve Officer Training Corps
S1        Personnel/Administration
SF        Standard Form
SIDPERS   Standard Installation/Division Personnel System
S-JDA     Standard - Joint Duty Assignment
SP        Medical Specialty Corps
SPMD      Support Personnel Manning Document
SPP       State Partnership Program
Sr        Senior
SRB       Selective Retention Board
SSC       Senior Service College
SUTA      Split Unit Training Assembly
T10       Title 10
TAG       The Adjutant General
TDA       Table of Distribution and Allowances
TIG       Time in Grade
TJAG      The Judge Advocate General
TOE       Table of Organization and Equipment
TRADOC    Training and Doctrine Command
USAR      Army Reserve
USAWC     United States Army War College
USR       Unit Status Report
UVP       Unit Vacancy Promotion
VC        Veterinary Corps
WO1       Warrant Officer One
WOBC      Warrant Officer Basic Course




                  KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021      47
             UNCLASSIFIED




 THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




KSARNG SOP 600-100-1 • 15 April 2021   48

