IIIke

v

ti

DONATED
to the
US Army Armor School
Library
by
James I. King,
Brigadier General, USA
(.Petired)

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY FIELD MANUAL
FM 22-10
This manual supersedes TC 6, 19 July 1948 and Department ol the
Army Pamphlet 22-1, 28 December 1948

LEADERSHIP

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

United States Government PrintingOffice
Vashington: 1951
AGO 8167C

MARCH 1951

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON 25,

D. C., 6 March 1951

FM 22-10 is published for the information and guidance
of all concerned.
[AG 353 (17 Jan 51)]
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY:

OFFICIAL:

EDWARD F. WITSELL
Major General, USA
The Adjutant General

J. LAWTON COLLINS
Chief of Staff
United States Army

DISTRIBUTION:

GSUSA (5); SSUSA (5); Adm Svc (2); Tech Svc
(2); Arm & Svc Bd (2); AFF (40); AA Comd
(5); OS Maj Comd (5); Base Comd (5); MDW
(5); A (20); CHQ (5); D (5); B (5); R (5);
Bn (5); C (5) except 5, 19 (10), 6, 7, 17, 44 (15);
FC (2); Sch (25); PMS&T (2).
For explanation of distribution formula, see SR 31090-1.

AGO 3167C

FOREWORD
PURPOSE OF THE STUDY OF LEADERSHIP
Today, more than ever in history, the Army is in
need of leadership of the highest caliber. With the
increase in the complexity of warfare, the science
of war is increasingly dependent upon human
guidance. No matter how complicated it may become, war is always waged by men. The man who
leads and the men who are led win wars. Every
member of our military force must be a leader,
actually or potentially.
The purpose of this manual is to provide military leaders, actual and prospective, with a practical guide for applying the principles of leadership. In the ultimate sense, leadership is not
inherent; it depends upon traits which can be
developed, and upon the application of techniques
which can be learned. It is an art which can be
acquired, cultivated, and practiced by anyone who
possesses the mental and physical ability and the
moral and ethical integrity expected of a commissioned or noncommissioned officer. Developing
the art is a continuing process which involves the
recognition and practice of the basic traits of
leadership and the understanding and application
of sound leadership principles and techniques.
This manual stresses the importance of selfimprovement. The principles, character traits,
and procedures set forth are offered as an assistance to the leader in the problem of controlling
others. By applying these procedures to his own
practice and by analyzing his own traits of charAGO 3167C

acter, the leader will possess a yardstick for measuring his own success or failure.
Despite this guide, it constantly must be borne
in mind that successful leaders of the past were
not all of the same pattern; nor did they all use the
same methods of attaining success. All of them,
however, consciously or unconsciously understood
the basic concepts of leadership and successfully
practiced many of the techniques presented in this
manual.
The principles and techniques presented herein
are the result of an analysis of outstanding leadership displayed by successful leaders, both military
and civilian, of this and other countries. Thorough
study of these, combined with actual practice with
troops, will develop and foster the high standard
of leadership so urgently demanded by our Army
today.

AGO .3167C

CONTENTS
P,aragraph l

1

9-11

10

-12-16

18

Introduction-_
17
-18-20
Combat zone
21-22
Communications zone
23-27
Leadership in mobilization
training.
Leadership in demobilization__-28-30
31-33
Leadership of occupation
forces.
Leadership of minority groups 34-35
36
Leadership of female groups-

36
36
45
48

1.

BASIC CONCEPTS

2.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LEADERSHIP.

Section

I.
II.

Leadership principles and
traits.
Leadership techniques-.------

CHAPTER

3.

SPECIAL LEADERSHIP TECHNIQUES.

Section

I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
VII.
VIII.

AGO 3167C

Page

_ 1-8

CHAPTER

56
60
63
65

This manual supersedes TC 6, 19 July 1948, and Department of the Army Pamphlet 22-1, 28 December 1948

CHAPTER 1
BASIC CONCEPTS
1. DEFINITIONS

a. Commander. A title of an officer in charge of
a company, battery, or larger unit.
b. Leader. A military person who possesses
qualities necessary to direct others.
c. Leadership. Leadership is the art of influencing human behavior-the ability to handle men.
The techniques will vary depending on the size of
the command, the types of men, the personality of
the commander, and the particular situation.
d. Leadership Principle. A leadership principle
is one of the fundamental rules, characteristics,
traits or policies which is applied by a leader to
control or guide the actions of his subordinates.
e. Leadership Technique. A leadership technique is a method of applying leadership principles.
f. Leadership Trait. A leadership trait is a distinguishing personal quality that is helpful in the
exercise of leadership.
/

2. CHARACTERISTICS OF LEADERSHIP

a. Essential Nature of Leadership.The military
profession has no monopoly on leadership. In
every walk of life, in every industry, in every
AGO 3167C

government, in every phase of human endeavor,
there are leaders and there are followers. Progress
and success are dependent upon the quality and
efficacy of leadership.
b. Elements of Leadership. Leadership is the
art of influencing human behavior-the ability to
handle men. The art of influencing behavior, the
very essence of leadership, in turn involves understanding, analyzing, predicting, and controlling
man's behavior. Also involved in successful leadership is the will to lead, together with the character
which inspires confidence. Undoubtedly, there are
certain inherent characteristics which may aid in
the development of leadership. Yet, there are assuredly certain men possessing desirable leadership traits who have never attained the.stature of
great leaders. Likewise, there are men deficient in
certain of these traits who have attained this stature. Any theory that leadership is solely inherited
must be rejected. Leadership is intangible only to
the extent that we make it so. Any reasonably intelligent, morally sound, forceful man, no matter
how inexperienced, can become acquainted with
the component elements of leadership. These elements may be studied, practiced, learned, and applied, just as any other human accomplishment
may be learned and mastered.
c. The Leader and the Small Group. Every
leader, whether civilian or military, actually maintains close personal contact with only a small
group, regardless of the number of men ultimately
controlled by him. Inevitably, he must depend
upon that small group in order to make his will
2

AGO 3167C

known and to execute his purpose. In the realm of
the military, we refer to the small group as immediate subordinates and staff.
d. Military Leadership. Military leadership is
the art of influencing and directing men to an,
assigned goal in such a way as to obtain their
obedience, confidence, respect, and loyal cooperation. It is indispensable to success in combat. Like
all leadership, it is dependent upon personal traits
and upon the application of recognized techniques.
The personal traits can be developed, and the techniques can be learned.
3. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN COMMAND AND
LEADERSHIP
a. Authoritarian and Persuasive Leadership.
There are two kinds of leadership, authoritarian
and persuasive. One who is predominantly of the
authoritarian type normally is recognized by the
dogmatic use of authority or power. The persuasive type of leadership takes into consideration
the human element with all its complexity and
with all its differentiation of the physical, mental,
and moral capabilities and limitations of the individual. To a great extent, the persuasive leader
bases his skill in leadership upon example and
ability, with high standards of discipline and efficiency for himself as well as for his followers. This
manual is concerned solely with the development
of the persuasive type of leadership.
b. The Exercise of Command. Command is the
authority that a member of the military profession
AGO 3167C

lawfully exerts over subordinates by virtue of his
rank and assignment. Leadership can be exercised
by any one at any time irrespective of the framework of command. It is recognized that in any
group some individual will emerge as the leader,
even though no command or organizational structure is present. Individuals in coordinate capacities exercise leadership in their dealing with their
equals outside the immediate command structure.
In general, however, we think of military leadership as being exercised within the command
framework. Therefore, in one sense, military
leadership is the proper exercise of command.
c. Accompaniments of Command. Command in
the Army is accompanied by responsibility involving special trust and confidence. Command, with
its ramifications of administration, planning, executing, supervising, and coordinating, is the primary reason for the military leader's existence.
The leader is responsible not only for initiating action, but for supervising all activities within his
command. In this responsibility for the general administration of a group, it is his duty to receive,
comply with, and execute instructions with exactness and thoroughness, regardless of his personal
feelings.
4. OBJECTIVE OF MILITARY LEADERSHIP
The objective of military leadership is the creation and maintenance of an organization which
will loyally and willingly accomplish any reasonable task assigned or indicated, and will initiate
4

AGO 3167C

suitable action in the absence of orders. The
proper application of the principles of leadership
to a command can create an efficient well-disciplined organization possessing high morale and
esprit de corps.
5. RESPONSIBILITIES OF LEADERSHIP
a. General. The responsibilities of the leader
are twofold-accomplishment of his mission, and
the fulfillment of his responsibilities to his men.
Man is the fundamental instrument of war. Other
instruments may change, new weapons may be
created and new modes of defense may be devised,
but man, the fundamental instrument, remains
constant. The leader must be concerned with the
desires, needs, and mental state of his men. If the
leader knows and understands certain basic principles of human behavior; if he appreciates that
most men react in fixed and definite ways under a
given stimulus or influence; if he recognizes, develops, and applies those traits of character which
will produce the correct reactions in his men, he
will possess the basic tools for managing men-he
will be a leader. Since effective leadership in
battle is the ultimate goal of military leadership,
it is obvious that, regardless of the leader's ability
to dominate or persuade, his success inevitably
depends upon his skill in the tactical control 6f his
unit. Tactical control is a technique developed by
study and by practice.
b. Accomplishment of the Mission. The primary duty of the leader is the accomplishment of
AGO 3167C

5

his assigned mission. Everything else, even the
welfare of his men, is subordinate.
c. Duties to the Men. The next responsibility of
the leader lies in his duty to his men. It is rarely
possible to accomplish any mission without attention to the morale and esprit of the men. In the
military service, the follower is peculiarly dependent upon his leader; he can do little to improve his
lot if his leader neglects him.
6. INDICATIONS OF MILITARY LEADERSHIP
There are four characteristics of a command
that are accurate indications of success or failure
in the exercise of leadership. These qualities are
discipline, morale, esprit de corps, and degree of
efficiency.
a. Discipline. Military discipline is a state of
order and obedience existing within a command.
It involves the ready subordination of the will of
the individual for the good of the group. Military
discipline is an extension and a specialized application of the discipline of any organized society.
True discipline demands habitual but reasoned
obedience to command, an obedience that preserves initiative and functions unfalteringly even
in the absence of the commander. Discipline is
created within a command by training, by judicious use of punishment and reward, and by instilling a sense of confidence and responsibility in
each individual. Discipline demands correct performance of duty. The need for discipline is best
inculcated in an individual by appealing to his
6

AGO 3167C

sense of reason. In the few instances where appeal to reason fails, the use of punishment is effective in causing the recalcitrant individual to conform and perhaps to appreciate the need for discipline. Commendation and earned praise from
the senior to his subordinate, either individually
or collectively, for a task well done, serve to
strengthen the disciplinary bonds which bind together the smooth-functioning team.
b. Morale. Morale is a mental and emotional
state. The importance of morale cannot be overestimated since it is a great contributing factor to
the efficiency of a unit. Good morale is indicated
by(1) Zeal, or the voluntary effort which men
give to their tasks over and beyond the
perfunctory obedience to commands and
regulations.
(2) A basic sense of personal worth founded
on confidence in leaders, training, weapons, and equipment.
(3)

Satisfaction, or the pride of' the individual in the accomplishment of the assigned
mission.

c. Esprit de corps. Esprit de corps is the mental
and emotional state of the unit. It is distinguished
from morale, which is described as the mental and
emotional state of the individual. Esprit de corps
is not a simple summation of the morale of the
individuals in the unit. Rather, it results from the
total interaction of the personnel of the unit
toward one another and with the circumstances in
AGO 3167C

which the unit is placed. When unit esprit is high,
the collective goals of the unit overshadow those of
the individual members. In such instances, the
personal dissatisfactions of some individuals are
overshadowed by the prevailing group spirit. Unit
achievement, both past and present, is a strong
force in raising esprit de corps. A unit with a high
esprit de corps can accomplish its mission in spite
of seemingly insurmountable odds. Esprit de corps
is enhanced when the group identification is increased and, conversely, is lowered when it is decreased. It has been proved that pride in the unit
was the outstanding manifestation of good morale
in World War II; this was accompanied by good
officer-enlisted personnel relationships.
d. Efficiency. Efficiency is the ability to accomplish successfully an assigned task in the shortest possible time, with the minimum expenditure
of means, and with the least possible confusion.
Efficiency in a command is built by sound training and by effective administration. It is enhanced by good discipline, high morale, and esprit
de corps.
7. ROLE OF PSYCHOLOGY
Leadership is closely linked with psychology,
the study of human behavior. Proved principles of
leadership include proved principles of psychology. It is known that human beings tend to react
similarly under a given set of conditions. From a
leadership standpoint, some of these reactions are
favorable, some unfavorable. With a knowledge
8

AGO 3167C

of how human beings tend to respond to a particular set of circumstances and with a comprehension
of the basic factors that control human behavior,
the leader can capitalize on favorable reactions
and minimize tendencies toward unfavorable ones.
It is evident therefore that a knowledge of psychology is helpful to the leader.
8. ROLE OF ETHICS
Ethics, the science of moral duty, is closely allied
with the art of leadership. In order to set the example for his men and to win their confidence and
respect, the leader must be capable of deciding
whether a given course of action is morally right
or wrong. A knowledge of ethics will materially
assist the leader in making such a decision. It will
insure against his losing stature in the eyes of his
command by embarking upon a course of action
that is contrary to moral principles. Temporizing
with principles and moral standards may secure a
temporary advantage, or fleeting popularity. But,
in the end, only strict adherence to high standards
of honor and integrity will prove of value to the
leader.

AGO 3167C

CHAPTER 2
FUNDAMENTALS OF LEADERSHIP
Section I.

LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES AND TRAITS

9. LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES

Leadership principles apply equally in all commands. These area. PrincipleI. Know your job.
b. Principle II. Know yourself and seek selfimprovement.
c. Principle III. Know your men and look out
for their welfare.
d. Principle IV. Keep your men informed.
e. PrincipleV. Set the example.
f. Principle VI. Insure that the task is understood, supervised, and accomplished.
g. Principle VII. Train your men as a team.
h. Principle VIII. Make sound and timely decisions.
i. Principle IX. Seek responsibility and develop
a sense of responsibility among subordinates.
j. Principle X. Employ your command in accordance with its capabilities.
k. Principle XI. Take responsibility for your
actions.
10

AGO '3167C

10. DISCUSSION- OF PRINCIPLES OF MILITARY
LEADERSHIP.

The principles of leadership discussed below are
equally applicable to all levels of command from
the squad to the army group.
a. Principle I-Know Your Job. To know his
job thoroughly, the leader must possess a wide
field of knowledge. He must understand the technical aspects of the operation of his command and
the methods and procedures of organization, administration, instruction, and personnel management. The leader also should possess a sound understanding of human relations, Further, he
should have a working knowledge of the duties,
Tesponsibilities, and problems of his subordinates.
If he commands a service unit, he should have a
knowledge of Combat operations.
b. Principle II-Know. Yourself and Seek Selfimprovement. It is the duty of every leader to
evaluate himself and to recognize his -strengths
and weaknesses. An individual who does not
know his own capabilities and limitations is not
master of himself and can never hope to be a
leader. Likewise, an individual who realizes his
deficiencies but makes no effort to correct them
will fail as a leader. Study of leadership principles
and practice of sound leadership techniques will
develop leadership ability.
c. Principle III-Know Your Men and Look out
for Their Welfare.' By making a conscientious
effort to observe the members of his command as
often as possible, to become personally acquainted
AGO 3167C

with them, to recognize their individual differences, and to share in their joys and sorrows, the
leader will have a better understanding of how his
subordinates react and function under various
conditions. He then will be able to employ them
more effectively. By assuring himself that the
members of his command are as comfortable, well
cared for, and contented as circumstances will permit, the leader wins their confidence, respect, and
cooperation. By neglecting their welfare, the
leader indicates indifference and, as a consequence,
forfeits the trust and confidence of his men.
d. Principle IV-Keep Your Men Informed.
The soldier who is well informed about the mission and situation and about the purpose of hiR
particular task is considerably more effective than
the one who is not so informed. The better he is
informed, the better he can perform his tasks with
maximum initiative. The commander who fails to
make essential information available to his men
will soon find that they are performing blindly
without purpose. At the same time, commanders
at all levels must realize that security requirements impose limitations on information which
may be imparted to the men.
e. Principle V-Set the Example. Men instinctively look to their leaders for patterns of conduct
which they may either emulate or use as an excuse
for their own shortcomings. The classic example
of the military leader is that of an individual
whose appearance and conduct evoke from his subordinates, praise, pride, and the desire to emulate
12

AGO 3167C

him. By his outstanding performance of duty, the
leader must set the standard for the entire command. The commander who appears in an unfavorable light before his men destroys the respect
that must exist mutually between him and his men
before leadership can be exercised.
f. Principle VI-Insure That the Task is Understood, Supervised, and Accomplished. The leader
must give clear, concise orders that cannot be misunderstood; then, by close supervision, he must
insure that those orders are properly executed.
The issuance of an order is the initial and relatively small part of the commander's responsibility. His principal responsibility lies in supervision to make sure that the order is properly executed. It is this responsibility that is most difficult to carry out. The able leader will make wise
use of his subordinates to carry out his supervision effectively. Any commander of a large unit
who fails to make proper and adequate use of his
staff and subordinates demonstrates a fundamental weakness in leadership ability.
g. Principle VII-Train Your Men as a Team.
The duty of every leader includes the development
of teamwork through the thorough training of
his command, whether it be a-squad or an army
group. Modern armies are complex organizations
involving many different arms and services, all
working together as a team toward a common end.
Each part of the team must understand where it
fits into the common effort. The commander who
fails to foster teamwork while training his comAGO 3167C

13

mand will not obtain the desired degree of unit
efficiency.
h. PrincipleVIII-Mke Sound and Timely Decisions. The ability to make a rapid estimate of
the situation and arrive at a sound decision is essential to a leader. He must be able to reason
logically under the most trying conditions. He
must decide quickly what action is necessary in
order to take advantage of opportunities as they
occur. The vacillating commander not only will
be unable to employ his command effectively but
will create vacillation, lack of confidence, hesitancy, and indecision, within the command itself.
The ability to make sound and timely decisions
can be acquired by constant study'and by training
in making estimates. On the other hand, when
circumstances dictate a change in plans, the able
leader will act promptly without fear that the
command may consider such action as a vacillation.
i. Principle IX-Seek Responsibility and Develop a Sense of Responsibility Among Subordinates. The leader must be quick to seize the initiative in the absence of instructions from'his superior. By seeking responsibility, the leader develops
himself professionally and increases his potential
ability. Proper delegation of authority is a sound
attribute of leadership. The commander then holds
his subordinate strictly responsible for results,
and rarely for methods of procedure. Such action
by the commander engenders trust, faith, and confidence. It develops initiative and wholehearted
14

AGO 3167C

cooperation. Reluctance to delegate authority
often is a mark of retarded growth in leadership.
1. PrincipleX-Employ Your Command in Accordance With its Capabilities. To employ his
command properly, the leader must have a thorough knowledge of the tactical and administrative
capabilities and limitations of his command. He
must assign objectives that are possible of attainment, properly evaluate time and space factors,
and employ his command with sound judgment.
To do less than this may spell failure in accomplishing the mission. Recurrent failure brings
about collapse of morale, esprit de corps, and efficiency. However, on occasion, when the situation
demands, men must be pushed without hesitation
beyond their considered capabilities in order to
achieve a quick and cheap victory or to avoid a
costly defeat.

k. Principle XI-Take Responsibility for Your
Actions. The commander of a unit is responsible
for all his unit does, or fails to do. The leader
recognizes and acknowledges this responsibility
on all occasions. Any effort to evade this responsibility destroys the bond of loyalty and respect that
must exist between the commander and his subordinates.
11. LEADERSHIP TRAITS
Leadership traits are human qualities that are
of great value to the leader. Possession of these
traits simplifies the task of applying leadership
principles and assists greatly in winning confiAGO 3167C

15

dence, respect, and cooperation. An individual can
benefit by studying the traits considered important
to the leader. By careful self-analysis and application, he can develop those traits in which he is deficient and further strengthen those in which he is
strong. A study of our Nation's great military
leaders reveals that none possessed all the leadership traits to the maximum degree, but that a
weakness in some traits was more than compensated for by strength in others. Critical selfanalysis will enable an individual to realize the
traits in which he is strong and to capitalize upon
them. At the same time, he must endeavor to improve those traits in which he is weak. The following list of leadership traits is by no means allinclusive but does contain those of paramount importance to the leader:
a. Alertness is vigilance, promptness, and wideawakeness.
b. Bearing denotes desirable physical appearance, dress, and deportment.
c. Courage must be both physical and moral.
d. Decisiveness is the ability to make decisions
promptly when indicated and announce them authoritatively, concisely, and clearly.
e. Dependability is the doing of one's duty with
or without supervision.
'

f. Endurance both mental and physical, is necessary to continue and complete any reasonable
task.
16

AGO 3167C

g. Enthusiasm is the positive zeal or interest in
the task at hand. It is easily communicated to
subordinates.
h. Force is the ability to impose one's will upon
another.
i. Humility is freedom from arrogance and unjustifiable pride.
j. Humor is the capacity to appreciate the many
amusing or whimsical happenings of our everyday life, especially those which pertain to the
leader himself.
k. Initiative is the willingness to act in the absence of orders and to offer well-considered recommendations for the improvement of the command.
1. Integrity is the honesty and moral character
of the leader that must be unquestioned.
m. Intelligence is the intellect of the leader
which must be adequate to master the problems
presented by his level of command.
n. Judgment is the power of the mind to weigh
various factors and arrive at a wise decision.
o. Justice is being equitable and impartial in
bestowing favors and punishment.
p. Loyalty must extend both up and down. A
leader cannot expect loyalty from his subordinates
unless he is conspicuously loyal to them and to his
superiors.
q. Sympathy is the capacity of sharing the feelings of those with whom one is associated.
r. Tact is the ability to deal with subordinates
and superiors in an appropriate manner without
giving offense.
AGO 8167C

17

s.- Unselfishness is the studied avoidance of caring for or providing for one's own comfort or advantage at the expense of others.
Section II. LEADERSHIP TECHNIQUES
12. GENERAL

a. It is important to note that in small units the
leader can influence and direct his men through
close personal contact, whereas in large units he
must rely in great measure upon his staff and sub-.
ordinate commanders to assist him in making his
leadership effective. The larger the unit, the more
complex become the problems of leadership, but
the greater become the means available to the commander to assist him in tWe exercise of leadership.
The larger unit commander must consider carefully the leadership aspect of all basic policies,
which he prescribes or tolerates.
b. Obviously, it is not feasible to cite all possible
leadership techniques pertinent to a particular
leadership principle, since techniques vary with
the size of the command, the personality of the
commander, and the situation. In the following
paragraphs, some of the more common techniques
are listed under each principle. These techniques
are methods of applying a principle that are effective Under most circumstances. Over a period of
time, the leader will develop techniques of his own
which will be better suited to his own personality
and which he himself will be able to employ effectively.
18

AGO 3167C

13. LEADERSHIP TECHNIQUES WHICH ARE
APPLICABLE TO ALL LEADERS

a. PrincipleI-Know Your Job.
(1) Seek a well-rounded military education
through attendance at, service schools
and through independent reading, research, and study.
(2) Keep abreast of latest techniques in the
field of communication in order to facilitate control of your unit and to disseminate information.
(3) Seek out and foster association with
capable leaders. Observe and study their
actions and application of leadership
techniques.
(4) Broaden your field of knowledge through
association with officers and men of other
arms and services.
(5) Seek opportunity to apply knowledge
through the exercise of command. Real
leadership is acquired only through constant practice.
(6) Avoid overspecialization in too narrow a
field.
(7) Keep abreast of current military developments.
(8)

Familiarize yourself with the capabilities and limitations of all elements of
your command, by study and through
frequent visits to subordinates.

AGO3167C

19

b. PrincipleII-Know Yourself and Seek Selfimprovement.
(1) Analyze yourself objectively to determine the strong and weak points of your
character.
(2) Recognize your weak points and make an
effort to overcome them.
(3) Solicit, when appropriate, the candid
opinions of others as to how you can
make the most of your desirable qualities
and eliminate the undesirable ones.
(4) Profit by studying the causes for the
success or failure of other leaders past
and present.
(5) Develop a genuine interest in people;
acquire the human touch.
(6) Practice the "Golden Rule."
(7) Master the art of good writing and
speaking.
(8) Cultivate cordial relations with members
of the other arms and services and with
civilians.
c. PrincipleIII-Know Your Men and Look out
for Their Welfare.
(1) See the members of your command and
let them see you; be friendly and approachable.
(2) Develop an intimate knowledge and understanding of your subordinates
through personal contact and available
records. In small commands, it is im20

AGO 3167C

perative not only that the leader know
and address his subordinates by name,
but also that he be familiar with their
characteristics.
(3) Interest yourself in-the living conditions
of the members of your command, including their family environment, food,
clothing, and billeting.
(4) Make ample provision for, and give personal and visible attention to, the various
personnel Services, particularly those
concerned with the personal problems of
individuals.
(5) Provide for the spiritual welfare of your
command by supporting religious activities.
(6) Protect the health of your command by
active supervision of hygiene, and sanitation.
(7)
(8)

Support actively a safety program.
Determine the mental attitude of members of your command by frequent informal visits and by using fully all available sources of information.
(9) Administer justice impartially to all
without fear or favor. When punishment
is necessary, the commander should(a) Be fair, consistent, and impersonal.
(b) Punish in private, with dignity and
with human understanding.
(c) Never award degrading punishment.
AGO 3167C

21

(d) Avoid punishing a group for the faults
of an individual.
(e) Always make the individual feel that
the punishment is temporary and that
improvement is expected.
(10)

Insure fair and equitable distribution of
privileges such as passes, leaves, and
rotation.
(11) Encourage educational development by
providing educational opportunities for
members of your command.

d. Principle IV-Keep Your Men Informed.
(1)

Explain to your principal subordinates
why any particular task must be accomplished and how you propose to do it.

(2)

Assure yourself by frequent inspections
and visits that subordinates are transmitting necessary information to the
men.

(3)

Keep your principal subordinates informed of plans for future operations,
subject only to security restrictions.

(4) Disseminate information concerning the
capabilities of our weapons compared to
those of an active or potential enemy.
Where an enemy has an initial advantage, show how this can be overcome.
(5)

22

Be sure the troops are informed of the
capabilities and limitations of supporting
units, arms, and services.
AGO 3167C

(6) Be alert to detect the spread of false
rumors. Stop rumors by replacing them
withtruth.
(7) Build confidence and esprit de corps by
exploiting all information concerning
successes of the command.
e. Principle V-Set the Example.
(1) Be at all times physically fit, mentally
alert, well groomed, and correctly
dressed.
(2) Master your emotions. The commander
who is subject to intemperate bursts of
anger or to periods of depression will
have difficulty in gaining and holding the
respect and loyalty of his subordinates.
(3) Maintain an optimistic outlook. The will
to win is infectious. The leader fosters it
by capitalizing on his unit's capabilities
and successes, not on its limitations or
failures. Maintain an air of outward
calmness. The more difficult the situation, the more important this becomes.
(4) Conduct yourself so that your personal
habits are not open to censure. Coarse
behavior and vulgarity-are the marks of
an essentially weak and unstable character; these, together with a failure to be
punctual, and a tendency toward selfishness and self-indulgence in luxuries not
available to the command in general, are
inevitably resented by all ranks.
AGO 3167C

23

24

(5)

Cooperate in spirit as well as in fact.
Cooperation must work in two directions.
It arises from a wholehearted desire by
all members to further the effective
operations of the team.

(6)

Exercise initiative and promote the
spirit of initiative in your subordinates.

(7)

Be conspicuously loyal to those below
you as well as to those above you. Support those under you as long as the individuals concerned have been discharging their duties competently, The commander who seeks, however, to protect
an incompetent subordinate from correction by a higher commander is being disloyal himself. Loyalty is a primary trait
of leadership and demands unqualified
support of the policies of superior officers, whether the individual concerned
personally favors them or not.

(8)

Avoid the development of a clique of
favorites. While it is difficult to avoid
being partial to subordinates who have
rendered loyal and superior service over
a period of time, the temptation to show
partiality should be vigorously resisted.

(9)

Be morally courageous. The commander
who fails to stand by his principles
where the welfare of his command is
concerned, or who attempts to avoid the
responsibility for mistakes of his comAGO 3167C

mand, will fail to gain or hold the respect of his associates or subordinates.
(10) Share danger and hardship. A leader
who has elements of his command subject to danger or to hardship of any kind
should visit them as often as possible to
demonstrate without ostentation his willingness to assume his share of the difficulties:
f. Principle VI-Insure That the Task Is Understood, Supervised, and Accomplished.
(1) Through study and practice, develop the
ability to think clearly and to issue clear,
concise, positive orders.
(2) Encourage subordinates to seek immediate clarification about any point in your
orders or directives that they do not understand perfectly.
(3) Question your subordinates and assistants to determine if there is any doubt or
misunderstanding as to the task to be
performed.
(4) Supervise the execution of your orders.
(5) Make every means possible available to
your subordinates to assist them in accomplishing their mission.
g. Principle VII-Train Your Men as a Team.
(1) Insure by inspections and training tests
that your command is being trained in
accordance with training programs and
doctrine prescribed by higher authority.
AGO 3167C

25

(2) Make sure that the best available facilities for team training are provided and
that maximum use is made of such devices as communications drills, battle
drills, and realistic field exercises.

26

(3)

Insure that all training is purposeful and
that the reasons for.training are stressed
and are understood by all members of the
team.

(4)

Insure that each element of the command
is acquainted with the capabilities and
limitations of all other elements, thereby
developing mutual trust and understanding.

(5)

Insure that each subordinate leader understands the mechanics of tactical control for his own echelon of command.

(6)

Predicate team training on modern realistic conditions.

(7)

Insist that each officer and enlisted man
know the functions of each Other officer
and enlisted man with whom he habitually operates. Insist that each of these
know and understand each other, their
traits, peculiarities, strengths, and weaknesses.

(8)

Demand the highest standard of discipline and teamwork in all training.

(9)

Seize opportunities to train with other
units, both combat and service.
2AGO 3167C

h. Principle VIII-Make Sound and Timely
Decisions.
(1) Develop a logical and orderly thought
process by constant practice in making
objective estimates of the situation.
Making an estimate is not restricted to
the military. It is employed in the everyday life of all persons.
(2) Insofar as time and occasion permit,
plan for every contingency that can
reasonably be foreseen.
(3) Consider the advice and suggestions of
'your subordinates before making your
own decisions.
(4) Announce decisions in time to allow subordinates to make necessary plans.
i.Principle-IX---Seek Responsibility and Develop a Sense of Responsibility Among Subordinates.
(1) Learn the duties and responsibilities of
your immediate supervisor.
(2) Seek diversified assignments which will
give you responsibility and command experience.
(3) Take advantage of any opportunity
which offers increased responsibility.
(4) Perform every task, large or small, to the
.best of your ability., Your reward will
consist of increased opportunity to
demonstrate your fitness to perform
bigger and more important tasks.
AGO 3167C

27

(5)

Tell your subordinates what to do, not
how to do it; hold them responsible for
results. Delegate and supervise, but do
not intervene except when urgently necessary. Avoid usurping the prerogatives
of your subordinates.

(6)

Provide all possible personnel with frequent opportunities to perform duties of
the next higher echelon.

(7)

Be quick to recognize accomplishments
of your subordinates when they demonstrate initiative and resourcefulness.

(8)

Correct errors in the use of judgment
and initiative in such a way as to encourage the individual. Avoid public criticism or condemnation. Be liberal, however, in openly giving praise which is
deserved.

(9) Give unstintingly of help and advice
when such are requested by those under
your command.
(10) Insure that your personnel are assigned
positions commensurate with demonstrated or potential ability.
(11) Be prompt and fair in backing subordinates to the limit. Until convinced otherwise, have faith in each subordinate.
(12) Demonstrate to your command that you
are ready and willing to accept responsibility.
28

AGO 3167C

j. Principle X-Employ Your Command in Ac-

cordance With its Capabilities.
(1) Know, understand, and apply the Principles of War. See FM 100-5.
(2) Keep yourself informed as to the relative
operational effectiveness of various elements of your command.
(3) Be sure that the tasks assigned to subordinates are reasonably possible of accomplishment, but do not hesitate to demand their utmost effort when necessity
dictates.
(4) Analyze any task assigned. If means at
your disposal appear inadequate, inform
your immediate commander and request
additional means.
(5) Make every effort to equalize tasks proportionately, over appropriate periods of
time, among the several elements of your
command.
k. Principle XI-Take Responsibility for Your
Actions.
(1) Remember that you are responsible for
all your command does or fails to do.
(2) Accept justified criticism.
(3) Adhere to what you think is right; have
the courage of your convictions.
14. ADDITIONAL LEADERSHIP TECHNIQUES USEFUL TO
NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS
The noncommissioned officer has certain advantages and certain disadvantages in the exerAGO 3167C

29

cise of leadership. His constant and close association with his subordinates affords him an opportunity to impress his leadership upon them almost
continuously. On the other hand, close association
robs him of many advantages enjoyed by those
whose station is more remote from their command.
The following techniques are particularly useful
to the noncommissioned officer:
a. PrincipleIII-Know Your Men and Look out
for Their Welfare.
(1) Cultivate an intimate knowledge of the
personal and family background of your
men without invading their personal
privacy.
(2) Be attentive to the health of your men;
your close contact with them will permit
you to detect evidence of ill health quite
early.
(3) Equalize the unpopular or dangerous details among your men.
(4) Assist your commanders by reporting
any conditions which obstruct your
efforts to provide for the welfare of your
men.
(5) Avoid the appearance of awarding punishment upon your own authority.
b. PrincipleIV-Keep Your Men Informed.
(1) Pass on all information to your men
which will help them in the performance
of their duty.
.(2) Show your men how their efforts assist
in accomplishing the mission of the
larger unit.
30

AGO 3167C

(3)

Remember that you will be One of the
first to hear false rumors; stop them
before damage is done.
(4) Seek information which is desired and
which will be useful to your men,
15. ADDITIONAL LEADERSHIP TECHNIQUES USEFUL'TO
REGIMENTAL AND LOWER UNIT COMMANDERS

Commanders of regiments and lower units
have the distinct advantage of participating in the
actual accomplishment of missions assigned to
their units. Superior leadership of the men in
platoons, companies, battalions, and regiments is
essential. The soldier's opinion of all officers
usually will be the result of the opinion he forms
of the few officers with whom he is closely associated. The following techniques are particularly
useful to officers commanding regiments and lower
units:
a. Principle I-Know Your Job.
(1) Avoid, overspecializing in too narrow a
field to the extent that you lose your perspective.
(2) Learn and cultivate the use of at least
one foreign language. Lack of language
facility is a marked handicap to leaders
who must be prepared to serve the farflung interests of the United States.
(3) Obtain a working knowledge of the characteristics, habits of living, psychology,
and ideological concepts of people other
than your own.
.AGO

3167C

31

(4)

Broaden your global knowledge by a
study of geography and its influence on
peoples and on military operations.
b. PrincipleIII-Know Your Men and Look out
for Their Welfare.
(1) Recognize the importance of moralesupporting activities and welfare services and give them your wholehearted
interest and support.
(2) Protect the health of your command by
takingan active interest in your medical
service.
16. ADDITIONAL LEADERSHIP TECHNIQUES USEFUL TO
COMMANDERS OF DIVISIONS AND HIGHER UNITS
The higher commanders control the destiny of
many men and the responsibility therefore is
greater. The following techniques are particularly
useful to commanders of divisions and higher
units:
a. PrincipleI-Know Your Job.
(1) Keep informed of the relative development of all units under your control by
frequent visits and command inspections.
Visits and inspections by a commander
and his staff are the most effective
method of determining whether leadership principles are being applied correctly not only by the commander but
also by subordinate leaders.
(2) Study those aspects of war upon which
basic policy is laid in high command.
32

AGO 3167C

(3)

Employ your staff as extensions of your
personality during staff visits, and for
the primary purpose of fostering friendly
and efficient relationships between yourself and your subordinate commanders.

b. PrincipleIII.-Know Your Men and Look out
for Their Welfare.
(1) Protect the health of your command by
active supervision of hygiene, sanitation,
and your medical service.
(2) Establish and support a safety program.
(3)

Use command channels and surveys to
determine mental attitude of the officers
and men of your command.

(4)

Establish fair and equitable pass, leave,
and rotation policies. Insure that sound
promotion, assignment, and transfer
policies are carried Out.
(5) Establish appropriate standards and
policies for decorations and awards for
members of your command.
(6)

Make certain that your staff has done
everything to assist subordinate commanders in providing for their men.

(7)

Make certain that disciplinary measures
taken by subordinate commanders are
consistent and just.

c. Principle IV-Keep Your Men Informed.
Make full use of orders, memorandums, conferences, talks, informational and educational mateAGO 3167C

33

rial, and unit newspapers to keep your command
well informed. Nevertheless, avoid the dissemination of administrative matters that are not actually necessary.
d. Principle VI-Insure That the Task Is Understood, Supervised, and Accomplished. Supervise the execution of your orders by personal visits
to the subordinate commands and by requiring
your staff officers to do the same.
e. Principle VII-Train Your Men as a Team.
(1) Provide for progressive training and for
training exercises which involve combinations of appropriate arms and services;
show the battlefield application in the
training of service troops.
(2) Hold realistic command post and field
exercises in'which the situation is allowed to develop without prearrangement by the commander and staff conand Which are designed to procerned,
mote leadership,
staff supervision, and
teamwork in all echelons.
(3) Seize opportunities to train with units
of the Navy and Air Force.
f. Principle VIII-Make Sound and Timely Decisions.
(1) Direct and guide your staff to plan for
every contingency that can reasonably be
foreseen. Keep subordinate commanders
informed of contingencies as you anticipate them whenever security and other
considerations permit.
34

AGO 3167C

(2)

Encourage concurrent estimates and
planning in the various echelons of your
command'.
(3) Always make sure that your staff is
familiar with your current policies and
plans.
g. Principle IX-Take Responsibility for Your
Actions.
(1) Remember that regardless of your staff
and subordinates, responsibility for your
decisions and for their application is
vested in you.
(2) Insure that an unsuccessful commander's
failure was not due to some error on your
part before considering his removal.

AGO 3167C

35

CHAPTER 3
SPECIAL LEADERSHIP TECHNIQUES
Section I. INTRODUCTION
17. GENERAL

It is by no means true that every situation which
the commander encounters requires a special leadership technique. The techniques listed in chapter
2 have an inherent elasticity and flexibility and
are adaptable to any situation. Special supplementary leadership techniques are required, however, to meet certain problems such as duty in the
combat zone or communications zone, mobilization
training, demobilization, occupation duty, and
leading minority groups. This chapter presents
certain techniques useful in the solution of these
special problems.

Section II. COMBAT ZONE
18. ADDITIONAL LEADERSHIP TECHNIQUES FOR
COMBAT

a. Training in leadership is essential to success
in combat. Battle conditions demand decisions
and operations which test the leadership of all
3.6

AGO 3167C

officers and all noncommissioned officers, of all
grades, to an extent which does not exist under
other conditions. It is impossible to bridge completely the gap between training and conditions
existing on the battlefield. Therefore, in combat
there are certain additional techniques which must
be applied to meet these special conditions.
b. The problem of the leader is to attain the
objective with the maximum of effectiveness and
economy. To attain this objective(1) Develop fully the combat power of all
elements of your command.
(2) Coordinate and control combat power so
as to gain maximum effectiveness in destroying the enemy.
(3) Restore promptly any part of the potential combat power which mL.y have been
reduced or destroyed.
(4) Recognize battlefield conditions which
might damage the combat potential of
your command.
c. Combat power is developed by creating and
sustaining a desire to close with and destroy the
enemy. In large measure, it is gained by expert
training, by the fostering of confidence, and by a
knowledge of the fact that forward movement
tends to reduce casualties. In developing aggressiveness, the leader will(1) Strive to eliminate factors which produce
inertia, timidity, or uncertainty.
(2) Stimulate in all echelons implicit confidence in weapons and leaders.
AGO 3167C

37

(3)

Encourage all leaders to exercise initiative and to exploit favorable situations.
(4) Condemn all forms of complacency, however temporary, that may arise from a
false feeling of security.
(5) Indoctrinate his command with the necessity for maintaining the momentum
of the attack.
(6) Reward evidence of aggressiveness by
every means feasible, including decorations and unit awards.
d. Firepower produces combat power. Lack of
firepower is uneconomical, in that such lack must
be compensated for by commitment of disproportionate forces. Combat training must lay emphasis
upon economy and effectiveness of fire. To develop firepower, the leader Will-(1) Stress control and coordination of the
fire of all weapons and emphasize fire
distribution.
(2) Emphasize the necessity of firepower
against areas or positions without specific target designation or identification.
(3) Emphasize the necessity to economize on
ammunition, along with the need for
effectiveness of fire. Guard against the
tendency toward "trigger happiness".
which :is manifested by inexperienced
troops.
e. To gain maximum effectiveness in destroying
the enemy, coordination and control of combat
power is essential at all times. To maintain
momentum of attack, operation plans must be
38

AGO 3167C

supervised to their execution.

The commander

must be accurately informed of the location of all
elements, particularly of the forward elements, of
his command. The leader Will(1) Issue orders in time for subordinates to
coordinate their own plans.
(2) Insure the establishment and full use of
adequate signal communication,
(3) Encourage direct coordination between
commanders of attacking echelons.
(4) Make full use of phase lines, forward
and rear echelons of control, and other
coordination agencies.
(5) See that communication and liaison with
higher, lower, and adjacent units: are established. Make sure that command channels of specially organized forces are
adequately and clearly defined.
(6) Insofar as practical, personally observe
the progress of the battle and the efficiency of control. The commander who remains in his command post is courting
disaster.
f,Attainment of objectives is dependent upon
restoration of the potential combat power of any
part of the command which has been weakened or
destroyed by enemy action. With the rapidity of
movement in modern warfare, it is imperative that
men and equipment be replaced rapidly. This entails efficient movement, proper reserve and support positions, and assignment of units to missions
within their capabilities. To maintain potential
combat power, the leader mustAGO 3167C

39

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)
(5)

Insure that the chain of command remains intact. Make necessary replacements of subordinates promptly.
Permit adequate time in reserve position
for units to assimilate replacements, to
reorganize and regroup, to train, and to
replace and maintain equipment.
Devote special attention to units which
have failed in combat, to restore their
confidence and esprit de corps.
See that subsequent missions of such
units are within their capabilities.
When advisable, make prompt replacement of commanders. Wholesale replacements, however, may serve to accentuate
failure to the unit and thus lower esprit
de corps.

g. Factors adversely affecting the combat potential of the command include fear; panic; discouragement; isolation; and lack of confidence in
self, unit, or leaders. The presence of fear and
panic fluctuates in accordance with the condition
of troops, the degree of tactical success, and the
physical conditions of the battlefield. The greatest
susceptibility to fear and panic usually exists during baptism of fire, retrograde movement, or when
the unit is dispersed or isolated. Normally, it is
the commander of the small unit who must counteract such elements. However, it is the leader of
the large unit who trains and indoctrinates him
and who enunciates policies which should be instrumental in counteracting possible fear or panic.
40

AGO 3167C

To counteract these factors, the leader should(1) Insure that his troops are fed and rested
whenever possible, since hunger or exhaustion leads to lowered morale and reduces combat efficiency.
(2) Combat the effect of false rumor by
building up a reputation for truthfulness
and frankness.
(3) Minimize or eliminate, when possible,
those physical and combat conditions
which might produce fear or panic.
(4) Inculcate in his command those factors
which oppose such psychological conditions as anxiety, tension, insecurity, and
uncertainty, by keeping his men informed and by promoting group identification.
(5) Furnish every possible support, physical
and moral, for units which are isolated.
Do not allow such units to feel that they
are neglected, abandoned, or fighting a
sacrifice mission.
(6) Emphasize indoctrination which will
prepare the unit to wage aggressive combat in the fact of reverses, of isolation,
and of the unexpected.
19. LEADERSHIP FOR ATTACHED UNITS'
a. One of the majo r leadership problems that
confronts the commanders of larger combat units
such as divisions, corps, and armies is the proper
handling of attached units. In corps especially,
AGO 3167C

41

there is a continuous turn-over of divisions and
separate units during the course of a campaign.
The corps commander has the difficult problem
of
integrating newly attached units into the corps
effort and of giving them a sense of belonging to
the team. This calls for certain leadership techniques of a special nature in addition to the more
general techniques previously discussed.
b. To integrate newly attached units into his
command, the commander should(1) Establish communication with a newly
attached unit at the earliest, practicable
time.
(2) Insure that liaison is established with a
unit as soon as he learns it is to be attached.
(3) Deliver promptly a brief of all current
standing operating procedures and administrative policies to the commander
and staff of a newly attached unit.
(4) Make all necessary administrative arrangements for the efficient reception of
a unit newly attached to his. command.
(5) Insure that administrative responsibility
for attached units is clearly defined and
promptly accepted.
(6) Prevent unnecessary administrative reporting to his headquarters by attached
units.
(7) Require his staff to observe the chain of
command in dealing with attached units.
42

AGO 3167C

(8)

Visit attached units, even though they
may be further attached to subordinate
units.
(9) Require his staff to visit newly attached
units to ascertain what assistance his
command can render.
(10) Be familiar with the history of every
unit attached to his command.
(11) Insist that subordinate commanders include attached units in recommendations
for decorations'and awards.
(12) Encourage commanders of attached
units to make their problems or suggestions known to him.
(13) Check plans of subordinate commanders
to see that attached units are not discriminated against in missions assigned.
(14) See that attached units receive their fair
share of all privileges and welfare activities. Make these units feel that they are
an integral part of his team.
(15) Write a letter of appreciation to a departing unit whenever its service merits
such action.
20. SIGNAL COMMUNICATION
a. Just as leadership and command are inseparable, so, in turn, are command and signal communication inseparable. Thus it follows that
leadership and communication are in equally close
association; it is therefore essential that the leader
AGO 3167C

43

use all available signal communication facilities in
the application of the techniques of leadership.
b. The establishment and operation of signal
communications in the communications zone is not
difficult, since methods follow peacetime commercial practices. Technological improvements in signal communication facilities, however, introduce
two important factors into the problem of leadership in battle:
(1) The ability of the commander to exercise
leadership and tactical control is being
constantly extended.
(2) Senior officers who are not in frequent
contact with modern signal equipment
experience difficulty in becoming, or in
remaining, adept in its use.
c. To know his job, it is essential that a commander become thoroughly acquainted with the
capabilities and limitations of the signal communication equipment which is furnished. For higher
commanders it is not necessary to know the details
of its functioning, but only what it can accomplish.
However, any commander, who may be even temporarily required to use voice radio personally
should become familiar with the operation of the
equipment.
d. With the continued development of modern
signal communication facilities, the commander of
higher units are afforded increasing opportunity
to comprehend quickly the conditions faced by
their troops. Consequently, it enables the commander to exert his leadership ability to a degree
44

AGO 3167C

hitherto unknown. By creating a staff-observer
radio net, it is possible to emphasize most principles of leadership, though the chief application
must be that of tactical control.
e. The use of staff observers to assist the leader
has long been established practice. The practice is
greatly facilitated by the designation of a special
radio frequency for staff use. The commander and
the staff officer thus are enabled to become personally mobile, to have the advantage of on-thespot observation, and to keep in touch with the
situation, with one another, and with staff sections
at the command post. Staff observers equipped
with vehicular-mounted radios may travel with
the headquarters of subordinate commands whose
action may be critical. They operate in the same
net as the commander and staff and report the
position of the units accompanied and the salient
facts of the situation. Staff observers are not investigators. Their primary function is to help the
command to which they are attached or are
accompanying.
Section III.

COMMUNICATIONS ZONE

21. GENERAL
While service in the communications zone usually entails less hardship and danger than is encountered in the combat zone, close attention to
leadership principles and techniques is still necessary. The troops lack the incentive of combat
service. The commander does not have the adAGO 3167C

45

vantage of unit identification with its attendant
history and background. The emphasis that has
been placed upon service with combat units has
often reacted to the detriment of the morale of
service troops. Yet the opening of ports, the delivery of supplies, and similar activities in record
time can be employed to generate pride and develop esprit de corps.
22. TECHNIQUES
There are additional techniques applicable to
leadership of larger units in the communications
zone. The commander of these units shoulda. Utilize his staff, particularly the special staff,
to familiarize him with the various types of service
units under his command.
b. Delegate authority to his staff, especially to
the chiefs of technical services, for supervision of
units and accomplishment of assigned tasks. Remember, however, that final responsibility always
rests with the highest commander.
c. Determine the requirements and obtain a
balanced troop list that is adequate for the task.
d. Plan so that logistical support will be available when needed.
e. Maintain the highest possible standard of
living consistent with avoidance of justified criticism by combat zone personnel. However, he
should avoid requiring service troops to be uncomfortable merely because discomfort is unavoidable
in the combat zone.
46

AGO 3167C

f. Prevent the diversion of personnel and means
intended for the combat zone.
g. Prescribe a uniform for his troops appropriate to the work performed. Service-troops should
not be required to dress as combat troops unless a
real need exists.
h. Make special arrangements for combat troops
who are temporarily stationed in the communications zone. Conferences between commanders
should develop an interpretation of regulations
which does not cause resentment by either combat
or service troops.
i. Identify each project with the combat effort
of the theater of operations. Stress the part each
particular unit has in support of major operations.
Devise ways by which the command will know
what it has accomplished and how it can do better.
j., Subject to security restrictions, maintain
situation maps in; each unit to keep troops informed of the- progress of operations.
k. Assure himself that the administrative requirements of supported commands are promptly
and adequately met. Maintain liaison with supported commands.
1. When troops must be worked for excessively
long hours on a particular job, insure that they
understand their contribution to the over-all effort.
m. Employ units in the role for which they were
organized and trained except in emergency. Be
prepared to select and train physically able troops
for combat duty in case of emergency.
AGO 3167C

47

n. Maintain a high standard of discipline and
service efficiency. Take advantage of ceremonies
to engender unit esprit de corps, but avoid encroaching on essential duties or recreational time.
o. Where personnel stability permits, provide
educational facilities for those desiring to participate on a voluntary basis.

Section IV.

LEADERSHIP IN MOBILIZATION TRAINING

23. GENERAL
a. The material which follows is primarily related to training. It is included in this text because
it directly affects the study and development of
leadership in all units.
b. The commander charged with the training
of newly activated units must consider not only the
leadership which he himself exerts, but also that
of his subordinate commanders as well. The efficacy of his leadership will be reflected in the sum
total of their command abilities. It is of paramount importance that he develop leadership qualities in his subordinates: first, those manifested by
traits of character; and second, those based on
confidence which arises from knowing the job and
which are demonstrated by the ability to maneuver
and control troops in a coordinated effort.
c. One of the most important leadership responsibilities of the commander both before and during
mobilization training is the establishment of harmonious relations with the members of the adja48

AGO 3167C

cent civilian communities. The commander must
stimulate public support and cooperation by personal appearances before civic groups and personal yisits to important civic officials such as the
mayor and chief of police. During such visits, the
commander and members of his staff must explain
the mission of the units undergoing mobilization
training and point out various problems that are
likely to arise when a large military organization
is suddenly superimposed upon a civilian community. Through mutual understanding between
the civilian and the military of each other's problems, undesirable incidents involving misunderstanding or animosity between soldier and civilian
willbe held to a minimum. Moreover, the civilian
will not only accept but also welcome the soldier
and thus make a substantial contribution to the
soldier morale and esprit de corps.

d. Still another important leadership responsibility of the commander during mobilization training is the proper indoctrination of the cadre during their training prior- to the arrival of fillers.
The commander must impress upon all members
of the cadre that they will be the backbone of the
unit that is being formed around them; that they
must establish and maintain the highest standards
of discipline, training, and military courtesy so
that they, in turn, can suitably train and Set the
example for the fillers. The commander who effectively applies the principles of leadership during
the cadre training period produces a cadre that is
efficient and well disciplined-a cadre that will be
the nucleus for an efficient and well-disciplined
AGO 3167C

49

organization. The unfit must be eliminated from
the cadre.
24. COMBAT LEADERSHIP TRAINING

a. In training a new unit, the commander will
recognize that ability to lead troops in combat is
the prime requirement of junior leaders. Moreover, facility in handling troops is a technique and
as such is far easier for a commander to develop
in his subordinates than is leadership of the inspirational type. Men do not learn to lead troops
from theoretical instruction alone. They learn
mainly by experience in command. Therefore, the
commander must insure that the opportunity to
command exists. For example, he must insist that
all echelons of command follow strictly the provisions of the mobilization training programs which,
for most divisional units, require that nearly 50
percent of training -time be spent in unit field
exercises..
b. In this phase, "know your job", is a basic
element in instruction of new units. Realistic adherence to high standards of duty in all training is
the fUndamental.
c. Techniques available to the leaders of all
units by which their own leadership training, and
that of their subordinates, can be greatly facilitated are(1) Map-exercises and maneuver.
(2) Command post exercises.
(3) Field exercises.
50

AGO 3167C

d. Instructions for the conduct of these exercises are found in appropriate manuals. Correct
training methods and logical training progression,
however, are of such importance in the development of battle leadership that some elaboration of
these subjects is considered desirable and will be

covered in succeeding paragraphs.
e. Whenever possible, combination of the three
types of exercises laid on the Same terrain is useful
for training in leadership as well as in the tactical
handling of troops. Initially, the exercise may be
conducted on a map, then be repeated on -the
ground as a command post exercise. Finally, when
the training of the troops has progressed sufficiently, the same situation may be portrayed as a
field exercise. Thus, through logical progression
the commanders learn the theoretical aspects of
leadership in the map exercise, map' maneuver,
and command post exercise, and then apply this
theory to the field. exercise, employing actual
troops.
25. MAP EXERCISES AND MAP MANEUVERS

a. General. The definitions and conduct of map
exercises and map maneuvers are found in'FM
21-5. These are devices for training commanders
and staff officers in the theoretical conduct of military operations by means of a map. Map exercises
and map maneuvers are not substitutes for command post exercises and field exercises.
b. Techniques.

(1) Whenever possible, base the exercise or
AGO .3167C

51

maneuver on local terrain so that the
same tactical situation can later be
played in the field by subordinate headquarters and subordinate units.
(2) Prepare the map maneuver so that all
sections of the staff will participate.
(3) Stress realism by introducing requirements for staff supervision of the action
portrayed and approved techniques for
carrying it out.
26. COMMAND POST EXERCISES

a. General. A command post exercise can be
one of the most important leadership-training devices, depending on the manner in which it is executed. Where many artificialities are employed,
where the senior commander faces a situation requiring no leadership or command decisions on his
part, or where the exercise fails to develop logically, very little value is realized. It is possible to
avoid such adverse factors through the application
of realism, to include a freely developing situation
which demands a series of command decisions on
the part of all echelons. A command post exercise
fills its primary purpose only when it affords
leadership training for all commanders and their
staffs.
b. Techniques.
(1) Require command post exercises in all
echelons, down to and including battalions. Schedule these to precede the
field exercises for small units which are
52

AGO 3167C

required by the mobilization training
program. These two exercises should be
based on the same situation.
(2)

Wherever possible, hold command post
exercises on the ground. Require all
headquarters elements to be deployed at
appropriate distances and to move in accordance with the developments of the
situation.

(3)

In' all command post exercises, require
units to pass information back to the
next higher echelon, using organic means
of communication.

(4)

Require all echelons to act on the factual
or imaginary information furnished by
executing their original plan of action,
revising it, or calling for additional
means.

(5)

Adopt an attitude that the exercise is for
the training of all, including the commander. Stress the fact that neither the
commander nor any other leader can develop command facility without practice,
and that the command post exercise gives
experience in correcting mistakes without causing the troops to suffer for them.

(6)

Schedule command post exercises in any
one echelon only after the next lower
echelon has become proficient in passing
on the battle reports which actuate the
situation for its commander.

AGO 3167C

53

Use the chain of command in making
necessary corrections in the progress of
the exercise. t
(8) Realize that, while a command post exercise may be held for a commander and
his headquarters with only the next
lower echelon present, the exercise will
always benefit by the presence of as many
headquarters as can be spared at that
stage of training.
(9) Insist that staffs be used in a realistic
manner to plan and supervise all phases
of the exercise.
(7)

27. FIELD EXERCISES
a. General. Field exercises, particularly those
for small units, provide the best training test of
combat leadership ability and the best training
experience in developing it. Next to battle itself,
they are the end toward which all training is
directed. Failure to stress this type of training
results in low standards of leadership being
brought to the battlefield. The techniques of conducting field exercises are covered in appropriate
training manuals. However, because of their direct relation to leadership training, the following
techniques are given special emphasis.
b. Techniques.
(1) Stress realism. The modern battlefield
under conditions of mobile warfare appears empty. Since the battlefield does
appear empty, normally plan exercises
54

AGO 3167C

which involve ar advance to seize terrain
objectives.
(2)

Require repeated,,drills in the execution
of simple tactical maneuvers designed to
capture the planned objectives.

(3)

Stress logical progression of training.
Precede field exercises with instruction
in evaluation of terrain, with combat
orders, and with command post exercises
drawn for the same terrain and situation.

(4)

State the conditions of enemy fire which
are supposed to exist over the ground
travhrsed, or specific parts thereof. Do
not introduce complicated artificialities;
these only detract from the commander's
ability to concentrate on the control of
his unit and on the selection of a formation appropriate to the conditions of fire.
The end in view is leadership ability as
exemplified by facility in handling the
unit.

(5)

Stress the importance of each leader so
placing himself and his headquarters
that he can most readily coordinate all
efforts of his command and of the elements that may be supporting it.
(6) Do not permit exercises against flagged
enemy positions, or two-sided maneuvers,
until leadership facility in command and
control has been demonstrated.
AGO 3167C

55'

(7)

Wherever possible, employ current methods for marking support fires. Require
that such marking, with accompanying
movement, simulate battle conditions, if
feasible.
(8) Stress the importance of exchange of
information by all appropriate means.
(9) Have a well-planned critique immediately after each field exercise.

Section V.

LEADERSHIP IN DEMOBILIZATION

28. DEMOBILIZATION
After each war, the Army is confronted with
the difficult problem of demobilization. Divergent
and often conflicting objectives usually face the
Army at such a time. Some of these area. To return personnel to civilian life quickly.
b. To demobilize personnel in a just and fair
order.
c. To retain and maintain highly efficient forces
for occupation duties and for other commitments
of armed security at home and abroad.
d. To care for billions of dollars worth of supplies and equipment, and to assist in the disposal
of surplus.
e. To maintain morale in the Armed Forces and
civilian population.
f. To continue the induction or enlistment of
personnel as required.
'56

AGO 3167C

g. To secure public acceptance of the demobilization plan.
29. TECHNIQUES
Leadership techniques that particularly apply
to demobilization area. Early Planning in all Elements of the Command.
(1) The essence of a demobilization plan, regardless of the size of the military unit
involved, is that it is fair and just to the
individual, does not leave a weak, ineffective defense force, and can be carried out
expeditiously with the means available.
Mass demobilization procedures which
overtax facilities, both in the theater and
in the continental United States, and
which strip fighting and service units of
essential personnel are not justified solely
because of personal desires. These desires, expressed individually or in mass,
exert strong pressure for the rapid release of personnel from service without
regard to military expediency.
(2) Early planning in division and higher
commands is dependent upon directives
received from higher authority. It is
here that new leaders must be trained to
take over the responsibilities of experienced demobilized veterans. All troops
must be carefully oriented on the why
and how of the demobilization plan.
AGO 3167C

57

b. Education of Both Army Personneland Civilians. One of the most important objectives of a
demobilization program is public acceptance. Although all Army personnel must know and understand the plan, basic support must come from the
civilian population. This support can be gained
only by providing a sound, fair plan which is made
known through a carefully conceived, forcefully
executed public information program. Initial impetus is gained through indoctrinating officers
and men who will, in turn, inform friends and
relatives. Continuous emphasis must be placed on
the responsibilities of the Armed Forces for furthering national interest. The press and the public must be solidly behind procedures of the demobilization plan.
c. Fairnessto the Individual. A war of any appreciable duration will find practically all units
containing personnel with wide differences in age,
service, and family responsibility. If, at the end
of any future war, demobilization is based on individual criteria, those parts of the plan dealing
with the interests of individuals must be planned
and executed fairly.
d. Maintenance of Morale and Esprit de corps.
Any method of demobilization based entirely on
individual criteria will ultimately destroy group
identity. This is true not only of units that are
selected to remain in being, but also of units that
are used as vehicles for returning individuals
for demobilization. Large groups of personnel will
suddenly find themselves among strangers, in
strange surroundings, and under strange leaders.
58

AGO 3167C

Some methods that may prove useful in such units
for building and maintaining morale and esprit de
corps are-(1) To keep troops busy on useful work.
(2) To separate as quickly as possible personnel to be demobilized from those who
are to remain in the service.
(3) To make every effort to insure that demobilization plans work smoothly.
(4) To make men leaving the Army feel that
their service has been appreciated and
that every effort has been made to separate them from the service in an efficient
manner.
(5) To indoctrinate remaining men with the
importance of their work and service.
30. ADDITIONAL TECHNIQUES FOR UNITS COMPOSED
OF PERSONNEL TO BE DEMOBILIZED
a. Welcome veterans to the' unit. Foster a
,'sense of belonging' among those assigned from
other units.
b. Orient and inform personnel. Officers and
men must be kept informed of the status of demobilization as it affects them and of any reasons
for delays which may develop.
c. Include preparation for return to civilian life
in training. Courses of study in civilian pursuits
should be made available. Training should promote the health of the individual, and discipline
and pride in his unit.
AGO 3167C

59

'd. Provide good food, billets, living conditions,
and recreation.
e. Stress discipline, appearance, saluting, uniform, and unit athletics. Encourage men to wear
service ribbons, decorations, and any other authorized symbols of previous service. Where practicable, arrange for officers and men from the same
combat unit to remain together until separation
from the service.
f. Avoid rash promises and commitments.
Keep in mind that the best of plans go astray for
unforeseen reasons.
g. Avoid changes and counterorders. By thorough planning, seek stability for the unit and for
its individuals. Keep changes in orders and shifts
of personnel to a minimum.

Section VI.

LEADERSHIP OF OCCUPATION FORCES

31. OCCUPATION MISSIONS
Primary missions of occupation forces are to
support the military government of the occupied
territory and to protect that territory from external aggression and from internal uprising.
Secondary missions may include supervising and
regulating certain activities of the inhabitants of
the occupied territory; supervising and directing
essential rehabilitation and reconstruction; supplying necessities to the population; controlling
borders; supporting civil police; and conducting
training not only to fit the forces for carrying out
60

AGO 3167C

their occupation missions, but also to maintain
them as capable combat forces.
32. SPECIAL FACTORS

Some factors peculiar to occupation duties
which bear on leadership area. Foreign Duty. A large proportion of the
troops may not be serving overseas from choice.
The foreign population may naturally resent the
presence of an occupying force and may oppose it
by various means.
b. Incentive. Generally, it is difficult to convert
troops from their combat missions to those of occupation. The commander must expect a natural
let-down of interest on the part of the occupation
troops if no new incentives are provided and accepted by them.
c. Availability of Forces. The early stages of
the occupation are likely to be characterized by an
abundance of troops for occupation tasks. Later a
shortage may exist. Furthermore, a rapid turnover of personnel of the occupation forces may result from short-term enlistments, time required
for training replacements in the continental
United States, shipping time from the continental
United States, demobilization criteria, and other
factors beyond the control of the occupation force
commanders. These factors will increase the
training problems of the occupation forces, particularly with respect to junior officers and noncommissioned officers.
AGO 3167C

.61

d. Maintenance of High Standards of Discipline. Not only is it necessary to carry out the
normal administrative duties of occupation efficiently, but also it is essential to gain and maintain
the respect of the conquered populace. A highly
disciplined force will have little trouble controlling
those who respect its military efficiency.
33. TECHNIQUES TO BE EMPHASIZED

All leadership techniques discussed previously
apply equally well to the commander of occupation
forces. Some additional techniques area. To keep occupation forces informed of the
purpose and importance of their mission.
b. To do everything possible to make the tour of
occupation duty interesting for the command. Provide recreation facilities,. tours within the occupied
and adjacent countries, comfortable billets, good
food, and freedom from menial tasks that can be
performed by the conquered population. Provide
instruction for the troops in the language of the
occupied country.
c. To' treat the civil population fairly, firmly,
and courteously. Proper relations will. greatly assist in breaking down the people's natural resentment towards occupation forces.
d. To keep troops busy' on essential work and
training, or at interesting and wholesome recreation.
e. To provide the best in uniforms, arms, and
equipment, and insist upon outstanding appearance.
62

AGO 3167C

f. To select leaders carefully. Popularity alone
withii the unit is one of the poorest criterions in
these selections.
g. To demonstrate to your command that you
are part of it. The failures of the men are your
failures, and their successes are likewise yours.
Section VII.

LEADERSHIP OF MINORITY GROUPS

34. MINORITY GROUPS
Within our nation there are many groups which
are considered minority groups-racial, religious,
and cultural. Since the Army's concern is only the
employment of men on their individual merit so
that they may contribute most efficiently and effectively to the national effort, it follows that the
Army's interest in any minority group extends
only to distinctive differences which may necessitate special handling. These differences lie in such
factors as general ability, physical strength, diet
needs, mechanical skills, language, and education.
The problem of using certain minority groups with
greater efficiency has caused grave concern during
the past two wars. In a future war, this problem
may be of greater magnitude. For this considerable portion of our National manpower resources,
Lhe Army must accept the responsibility for providing competent leadership. At the same time,
leaders must avoid any effort to foster social experiments within the structure of the Military
Establishment except when expressly ordered by
higher authority to do so. The principles in chapAGO 3167C

63

ter 1 apply to the leading of any minority group in
the United States. The greatest sources of difficulty lie in the lack of thorough understanding of
the characteristics of the group, and in the failure
to recognize the fact that individual differences
are greater and more significant than are group
differences.
35. TECHNIQUES
A need for outstanding leadership is imperative
in units composed of personnel from recognized
minority groups. This need cannot be met by increased quantity of leaders alone; the quality of
leadership must be of the highest order. The following techniques are presented for the purpose
of amplifying the basic principles of leadership
and of applying them to minority group units:
a. Recognize that all soldiers are entitled to
identical treatment and to fundamental rights,
privileges, and opportunities regardless of differences in race, color, creed, or cultural background.
To accept less for your unit invites unfavorable
criticism; to demand more creates an undesirable
reaction from all elements.
b. Set the example in tolerance, understanding,
and freedom from prejudice. Become worthy of
being emulated as a broad-minded, unprejudiced
leader.
c. Avoid creating the impression of either hostility or patronizing condescension.
d. Develop an understanding of minority group
problems and feelings by observation and study.
64

AGO 3167C

It is only by first-hand knowledge that any race or
group may be understood. Diligent study of group
problems tends to destroy false beliefs and conceptions.
e. Develop in your men initiative and a sense of
responsibility by providing means and opportunities for fostering and improving these traits.

f. Impress your unit with the fact that the
Army is concerned primarily with the development
of soldiers and leaders and that each man will be
afforded opportunity to develop his own capabilities and capacities.
g. Be sure that adequate provisions are made
for off-duty time. When civilian facilities are
limited or restricted, increase the military recreational program accordingly.
h. Be patient in training progress. It is better
to build slowly toward high standards than to
neglect details.
i. Maintain the same standards as are required
of comparable units.

Section VIII.

LEADERSHIP OF FEMALE GROUPS

36. FEMALE GROUPS
While WAC's, nurses, and female civilian employees, Red Cross workers, and USO entertainers
do not constitute a minority group, their presence
with the Army poses certain problems of leaderAGO 3167C

65

ship. Individually, or as a group, women require

certain facilities and items not essential to male
personnel; among these are-special facilities for
billeting, transportation, hospitalization, and recreation, and special items of individual equipment
and supply. The particulars concerning leadership of women are contained in appropriate publications prepared by the Women's Army Corps.
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1951-914944

66

AGO 3167C

