....... ~ , t ., . FIELD MANUAL LEADERSHIP EM 22-10 } DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY CHANGES No.2 WASHINGTON 25, D. C., 17 ApriZ 1957 FM 22-10, 6 March 1951, is changed as follows: 36. Female Groups (Superseded) The fundamentals of leadership as they pertain to Women's Army Corps personnel, as discussed in a, below, are applicable to all women leaders within the Army, i. e., nurses, dieticians, etc. a. The 11 principles of leadership are as applicable to officers and noncommissioned officers of the Women's Army Corps (WAC) as to male leaders. WAC officers and noncommissioned officers enhance their value to the Army by development of the same leadership traits and techniques as those prescribed for male leaders. The WAC leader must bring understanding to situations without allowing the maternal instinct to overpower reason and knowledge and must guard against the overprotective attitude. vVomen, perhaps even more than men, require evi- dence of personal interest and recognition from their leaders. Genuine concern for others is essential to the leadership of women. The woman leader must control her emotions, guard against professional jealousy and selfish ambitIon, a:nd strive to conduct her life in a manner to be emulated by her associates. The WAC leader is required to exemplify the highest TAGO 5825C-Apr. 400498-57 1 moral standards. Such leadership traits as fairness, with the Army poses certain problems of leadership honesty, unselfishness, sincerity, decisiveness, and for both male and female Army personnel who must courage are essential to women leaders. be prepared to understand and make available the (1) Delegation of authority and supervision is supplies needed by these women as well as those of equally important among women leaders. their own troops. They should insure that personnel are as- [AG 303 (II Apr 57) ) signed duty positions commensurate with demonstrated or potential ability and should help subordinates to recognize their speci- fic contributions to the accomplishment of the Army mission. (2) The successful woman leader is obliged to set an example of loyalty to the Army, to the station and its policies, and to other members of her unit. The development of leadership traits will enhance the ability of women leaders to inspire subordinates through persuasive methods. (3) The special leadership techniques which apply principally to combat are presented to WACs theoretically to provide them with knowledge of what is desired of the leaders of combat troops. Since combat training or participation is barred to mem- bers of the WACs, disaster training is utilized to develop leadership techniques similar to those emphasized in combat training. b. Female civil service and other civilian em- ployees, Red Cross workers, Special Services, host- esses and librarians, and usa entertainers are not integral parts of the Armed Forces. Their presence 2 TAGO 5825C TAGO 58211C 3 }3J'.IUder of Wilber M. Brucker, SecretaMT ofR~: -" MAXWELL D. TA.YLOR, General, United States Army, Official: Ohief of Staff. HERBERT M. JONES, Major General, United States Army, The Adjutant General. Distribution: Active Army: COFSA CMH VCOFSA Tee Svc, DA DCSPER Admin & Tec Svc Bd ACSI Hq CONARO DCSOPS Army AA Comd DCSLOG OS Maj Comd ACSRO OS Base Comd CARROTO MDW OOFF Armies COA Corps CRD Div ONGB Brig SpWar Regt CAMG Bn TJAG Co TAG Ft&Cp TIG Gen & BrSvc Sch COFOH PMST Sr Div Unit CINFO PMST Jr Div Unit TPMG PMST Mil Sch Div Unit NG: State AG; units-same as Active Army. UBAR: Same as Active Army. For explanation of abbreviations used, see SR 320-50-1. 4 TAGO 58215C .0 .. 10VIRNIIIHT PRINTING orrlcIII1I7
