------FM 22-102------

FM 22-102
Headquarters Department of the Army
Washington, DC, 2 March 1987

J.'it•ld :VL111ual
\lo. :!:!-111:!

SOLDIER TEAM DEVELOPMENT
Contents
Preface ...................................................... iv
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . v
CHAPTER 1.

Characteristics of CombatReady Teams ........................... 1
BE Characteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Spirit ............................... '. .... 2
Professionalism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Maturity ............................... 3
Values .....•........................... 4
KNOW Characteristics ..................... 6
Soldier Knowledge ........................ 7
Battlefield Knowledge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Ethical Knowledge
....................... 7
People.Knowledge ........................ 7
DO Characteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Assess
.................................. 8
Communicate ............................ 8
Make Decisions .......................... 9
Train ................................... ·9
Team Characteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Summary .................................. 12

CHAPTER 2.

Forming Combat•Ready Teams . . .

13

The Formation Stage ..................... 13
Leader Actions ........................... 14
Work Concerns .... : ................... 14
Personal Concerns ..................... 15
Team Formation Activities ................ 16
Reception ............................. 16
Orientation ........................... 18
Tea'm Formation in Combat ............... 22
Reception 'and Orientation ................ 24
The Buddy System .......... , ............ 25
Summary .................................. 27
01str1butio11 fiestnct1on t>.1;1:roved for r;ubl1c relECase; d1str1but1on is unl11n1ted.

i

CHAPTER 3.

Developing Combat-Ready
'J'earns .. ·............. ,... :, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
The Development Stage ................... 29
Leader Actions ........................... 30
Listen ........ , ....................... 30
Establish Clear Lines of Authority ...... 31
Develop Soldier and Unit Goals ......... 31
Training Principles ....................... 32
Train as a Unit ....................... 33
Train for Combat ...................... 34
Build Pride in Accomplishment ......... 36
Develop Self-Evaluation Habits ......... 37
Team Development In Combat ............ 37
Differences in Combat .................... 37
Leader Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Know the Job ........................ : 39
Know the Soldiers ..................... 39
Develop the Soldier .................... 39
Structure the Situation for the Soldier ... 40
Summary ............................. ·.. , .. 42

CHAPTER 4.

Sustaining Combat-Ready
Teams ............................... : ..

43

The Sustainment Stage .................... 43
Leader Actions ........................... 45
Deal With Change ..................... 45
Reassess Goals and Priorities ........... ·45
Focus on Teamwork ................... 46
Focus on Training ..................... 46
Focus on Maintaining ................. 46
Ensure Timely Supply ................. 47
Respond to Soldier Concerns ........... 47
Unit Activities ........................... 47
Military Ceremonies ................... 48
Sports Activities ....................... 48
Social Activities ....................... 49
Spiritual Activities ..................... 49

ii

Team Sustainment In Combat . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deal With the Situation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Continuous Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enemy Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Casualties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boredom .............................
Rumors ..............................

49
49
50
50
50

52
52

Deal With Soldier's Feelings . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Deal With Panic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Restructure the Situation . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 56
Summary

.................... ·............. 57

APPENDIX A. Teamwork Assessment .................

58

APPENDIX B.

A Unit of Excellence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

APPENDIX C.

One Soldier's View of His
COHORT Unit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67

NOTES .....................................................

72

GLOSSARY ................................................

73

REFERENCES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
INDEX .....................................................

75

iii

Preface
Soldier team development is a key task of the small-unit
leader. The purpose of this field manual is to assist leaders
at company level and below in developing soldier teams to
meet the challenges of combat on the air-land battlefield.
The reader should be familiar with FM 22-100, the Army's
basic leadership field manual.
·
Chapter 1 describes the characteristics of a cohesive,
·combat-ready team using the BE-KNOW-DO leadership framework of FM 22-100. The remaining chapters describe the
stages to reachthe goal of a cohesive, combat-ready team.
·They discuss principles and actions for both peacetime and
combat that the small-unit leader can use as he guides :unit
members through the stages,
Chapter 2 describes the formation stage, characterized by
soldiers who want to belong-to be accepted and productive
mem hers of the team. Chapter 3 describes the development
stage, characterized by soldiers beginning to feel at ·home
in the unit, questioning, or perhaps resisting, authority as
they attempt to find· their place in the unit. It shows that
strong, caring leadership and quality training which develop
soldier and unit competence and unit teamwork are important
during the development stage.
·
Chapter 4 discusses the sustainment stage, characterized
by a cohesive team-soldiers committed to one another and
to mission accomplishment. It. describes the leader's responsibility to sustain that level of teamwork by dealing with
the continual problems that work to deteriorate group cohesion. It is important that the leader view these three stages
as one process with readiness as the goal. Teams that develop cohesion multiply their effectiveness in combat.
The proponent of this publication is HQ TRADOC. Submit
changes for improving this publication on DA Form 2028
(Recommended changes to Publications and Blank Forms)
and forward to Commander, US Army Combined Arms Center, ATTN: ATZL-SWA-DL, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas
66027-6900.
Unless otherwise stated, whenever the masculine gender
is used, both men and women are included.

iv

Introduction
The air-land battlefield will be more intense than any we
have known before. Units throughout the battlefield will
experience the shock of battle, requiring readiness of all
soldiers-combat arms, combat support, and combat service
support. Combat will be decentralized, with soldiers widely
scattered and small teams isolated from higher command.
Isolation will be further increased by the disruption of communications and an incr.eased tempo of operations. Highly
lethal weapons systems and accompanying high casualty
rates may leave sergeants commanding companies and privates leading platoons, sections, squads, and crews early in
the battle. Soldiers and leaders throughout the entire battlefield will be subjected to continuous operations with dangers
of significant sleep loss and elevated stress.
Strong leadership that develops effective teams is· the key
to success on the air-land battlefield. The best combat and
combat support strategies and the most brilliant application
of tactical operations cannot ensure victory unless soldiers
in sections, squads, crews, platoons, and companies effectively
perform their assigned missions. Ultimate success in the
battle will depend largely on the development of cohesive
combat-ready teams consisting of well-trained and highly
motivated soldiers.

"

These teams must be able to operate independently of
parent units while performing all missions within the overall
intent of the commander. Further, teams must not only share
a common belief for the cause in which they fight, but
mutual respect, trust, and confidence must prevail in every
unit. Leaders must care and soldiers must know they care,
Additionally, each team member must be prepared to accept
and execute leadership responsibilities at a moment's notice.
But the principles put forth in this publication extend
beyond the battlefield. They are the key to success for all
teams in all missions at all times. It is a leadership responsibility to develop these teams at all levels and this manual
is designed to help the leader build them.

v

CHAPTER 1

Characteristics of
Combat-Ready Teams

"A

conglomerate mass of Americans gathered from all
walks of life who had been shaped into a cohesive organization for the purpose of performing certain military tasks,
the unit was ... not simply the place where members lived
and worked, ate and slept; the unit was the soldier's family." 1
This description of the squads, platoons, and companies
of the 291st Engineer Combat Battalion in World War II
captures the essence of the com bat-ready team. Each squad,
section, and crew is a tightly knit family where soldiers know
one another intimately-their likes and dislikes, their faults
and strengths, their beliefs and ideas. These small groups
of soldiers determine to a large extent whether wars are won
or lost. Each basic group is a part of a larger group which
is part of a yet larger group. In the final analysis, the
effectiveness of battalions and higher military units depends
on the formation of these "families" in the smallest groups.
Each soldier's performance in combat will be directly related
to his membership on a team whose members think, feel,
and act as one. Such successful teams demonstrate certain
BE-KNOW-DO characteristics.

1

Chapter l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

BE CHARACTERISTICS
The BE of BE-KNOW-DO deals with inner qualities-the
heart of the team and its members. These inner qualities
are expressed in soldiers' actions. Successful soldier teams
reflect a winning spirit and a professional attitude.

SOLDIERS
WITH SPIRIT
SUPPORT AND
FIGHT FOR
ONE ANOTHER

SPIRIT
When we try to determine the probable winner of a sports
contest, we weigh the participants' strengths and weaknesses.
We add them up and normally choose the strongest as the
probable winner. But experience shows that this system does
not always work. A team, outnumbered and overpowered,
can overcome lack of strength and win when it has a strong
desire to do so. That strong desire is called spirit-a most
critical element of a combat-ready team. Soldiers in a unit
with spirit believe in the cause for. which they are fighting,
they believe in themselves, and they fight for one another.
They have a will to win and believe they are winners. They
act as one in accomplishing the units' tasks and missions.
According to Clausewitz, the spirit of the soldier is
extremely important:
An army that maintains its cohesion under the most
murderous fire; that cannot be shaken by imaginary
fears and resists well-founded ones with all its might;
that, proud of its victories, will not lose the strength to
obey orders and its respect and trust for its officers even
in defeat; whose physical power, like the muscles of an
athlete, has been steeled by training in privation and
effort; a force that regards such efforts as a means to
victory rather than a curse on its cause; that is mindful
of all these duties and qualities by virtue of the single
powerful idea of the honor of its arms-such an army
is imbued with the true military spirit. 2
Leadership that nurtures and builds this kind of spirit reinforces the pride in service critical for cohesive teams.
PROFESSIONALISM
In effective units prepared for the air-land battlefield, each
soldier is a respected professional. Others believe that he
can get the job done and can be trusted. Professional soldiers
are mature and share the values of their profession and
their unit.
J

2

Maturity. A mature soldier develops physically, socially,
emotionally, and spiritually. Physical fitness and development
provide the stamina necessary for sustained action and intense stress. Social maturity provides the willingness to work
with others in cohesive teams. Emotional maturity gives
stability to deal with the stress of combat. Spiritual maturity
gives the soldier hope and purpose to face the dangers and
uncertainty of combat. Signs of maturity that are important
in combat-ready teams include self-discipline, initiative and
judgment, and confidence.
Self-discipline enables clear thinking and reasonable action
in the moment of combat with its isolation, high leadership
casualties, continuous stress, and need for independent actions. Self-disciplined soldiers realize that success and survival depend on. working together, and they are able to
undergo extreme hardship to achieve team goals. In peacetime, self-discipline helps the team engage in more difficult
training, develop trust more quickly, and handle more tasks
with ease.
Initiative and judgment are essential in both peacetime
and combat. On the. battlefield soldiers need initiative to
operate. within the intent of their commander and to move
decisively in accomplishing their mission. This is true whether
"combat action" involves firing at the enemy, performing
maintenance and repairs on combat equipment, or driving
a truck that takes essential food, ammunition, or fuel to the
battle. However, initiative does not mean "do something even
if it's wrong." It must be tempered by good judgment-the
ability to size up a situation quickly and to know what is
important and how to accomplish what needs to be done.
Soldiers with initiative tempered by good judgment act on
their assessments quickly and decisively with little or no
supervision. They accept responsibility and take thoughtful
. action to operate successfully and to execute difficult missions.
Another ingredient of successful teamwork is confidence.
To remove doubt and anxiety in combat, the soldier must
first have confidence in his own professional ability. Then
he must be confident that his fellow team members, as well
as other supporting soldiers, can do their jobs effectively.
For example, when a forward observer calls for "danger
close" fires, the soldier needs confidence in the accuracy of
the forward observer and of those delivering the fire.
3

The soldier needs to feel confidence in his leader. The
leader earns his soldiers' confidence as he demonstrates his
ability to do his job. Soldiers and· leaders .develop mutual
confidence by sharing difficult, challenging, and realistic
training, as well as the rigors and dangers of combat. Mutu,al
confidence multiplies combat power as it welds individuals
into cohesive teams.
,
Values. The values of the professional Army ethic-'-loyalty,
duty, selfless service, and integrity-are stated in FM 100-1.
These values, based on the Army's relationship to the nation,
form the bedrock of the soldier's values and provide guidelines for his behavior. They are time-tested, and they work.
Each soldier has his own set of values developed in his
home, place of worship, school, and community. But when
an individual leaves civilian life and puts on the Army
uniform, he incurs new obligations based on the Army values.
Through strengthening individual values of candor, competence, courage, and commitment, these values of the professional Army ethic can be developed as the working values
of all soldier teams. The role of the leader is not to change
long-held personal values, but to impress upon the soldier
the importance· of these professional. values. If, however, a
soldier holds values that significantly conflict with these
Army values, the leader must seek some resolution with the
soldier.
'
THE PROFESSIONAL
ARMY ETHIC
PROVIDES THE
BASIS FOR FORMING
COMMITTED,
COHESIVE TEAMS

The Professional Army Ethic.
The values of the professional Army ethic are discussed
below as they relate to developing effective military teams.
When team members share these values, they have the basis
for a cohesive team committed to the unit, the Army, and
the nation.
Loyalty to the nation, to the Army, and to the unit is
inherent in the oath which every soldier takes upon entry
into the service of his country. If the leader shows loyalty
to his soldiers, he earns their loyalty, He trains his soldiers
before battle to ensure they have the best possible chance
for survival. He cares for their well-being and for that of
their families. He demonstrates genuine concern for their
problems. He· protects them from ill-conceived and unnecessary tasks from outside elements. In turn, loyal soldiers
follow legitimate orders without explanation because they
.have confidence in their leader. They stand up for their unit
and its leadership in discussions with other soldiers.

4

Duty is obedience and disciplined performance. A sense
of duty in each soldier, even in the face of difficulty and
change, is indispensable to soldier team development. Soldiers
with a sense of duty accomplish tasks given them, seize
opportunities for self-improvement, and accept responsibility
for their actions. They recognize their place on the team
and work to earn and maintain the respect and loyalty of
their peers, leaders, and subordinates.
Selfless Service is evident in the cohesive, combat-ready
team; soldiers and leaders operate with the view that "we're
in this thing together." Soldiers are primarily committed to
mission accomplishment rather than to self-interest.
Integrity is the cornerstone of the professional Army ethic.
Integrity involves honesty, but more than honesty, it is a
way of life. When a soldier has integrity, others know that
what he says and what he does are the same and that he
is absolutely dependable. In both preparing for, and fighting
in, combat, demonstrated integrity is the basis for dependable
information, decision making, and delegation of authority.
Trust and loyalty will more Jikely develop in a unit where
integrity is an accepted way of life. Trust allows the leader
to give critical tasks to the soldier, confident that he will
accomplish them responsibly. The soldier who trusts his
leader's integrity follows his orders willingly, even in the
heat of battle. He trusts that the leader has good reasons
for his actions. Mutual trust leads to mutual loyalty between
soldiers and their leaders.
·
Soldier Values.
The development of four basic values in each soldier can
help strengthen the acceptance of the values of the Army
ethic. These soldier values are candor, competence, courage,
and commitment.

Candor is honesty and faithfulness to the truth. The
combat-ready team develops only when its members realize
that honesty is absolutely essential. Team members must
be able to trust one another and their leaders. Without truthfulness, this will not occur. When soldiers see their leaders
or peers lying about status reports, or other unit situations,
they wonder if they can be trusted to be truthful in a crisis.
The question arises "Will they be honest about the wartime
situation?" There is no time for such second-guessing
in combat.
.

5

Competence is imperative for the combat-ready team. Soldiers accept one another and their leaders when they are
satisfied with their leaders' knowledge of the job and ability
to apply that knowledge in the working situation. Nothing
deteriorates teamwork quicker than the perception that soldiers do not know how to soldier and leaders do not know
how to lead. Further, the soldier's competence is the basis
for the self-confidence critical to feeling accepted by the team.
Courage, both moral and physical, is displayed by soldiers
in cohesive, combat-ready teams. They understand that fear
in combat is natural and to be expected~ This helps them
retain control and accomplish their objectives in spite of the
risk. Moral courage helps the combat-ready team to do the .
right thing in a difficult situation, even when some might
strongly feel that the wrong is more attractive. Both physical
and moral courage requires that soldiers do their part lest
they lose face with their buddies. Courage on the part ·of
one or two soldiers is contagious and becomes a way of life
in the cohesive, combat~ready unit.
Commitment to the unit, the Army, and the nation occurs
when soldiers accept and demonstrate the values discussed
above. When soldiers show that unit accomplishment takes
priority over personal inconveniences, when they willingly
spend extra time to get the job done for the unit, when they
spend time developing their competence to be the best possible soldier· to make their unit combat-effective, they are
demonstrating commitment to the unit and to the Army.
The values discussed are more than nice-sounding words;
they apply in sections, squads, and crews and in platoons
and companies. They are important in combat, combat support, and combat service support units. Soldiers may not
think of them in terms of the Army or of the nation. Instead they may think of their buddies with whom they eat
and sleep and share dangerous situations. These values and
the actions they cause set the climate for a team prepared
for battle.

KNOW CHARACTERISTICS
What the soldier knows about his profession has made
· the difference between winning and losing since the first
two warriors met in the days before recorded history. It is

6

even more imperative on the complex, fast-moving, and hightechnology battlefield of today· and tomorrow. Competence
is necessary if trust and confidence are to d~velop in cohesive, combat-ready teams. A soldier or leader new to a
unit is not automatically accepted. He earns his way as
others become confident th(lt he knows how to do his job.
Certain key knowledge is necessary for effective teams.

SOLDIER KNOWLEDGE
All soldiers, regardle~s of military occupational specialty,
must master skills neces.sary for survival in combat. These
skills apply to all soldiers, from the engineer platoon leader
to the finance clerk to the infantry squad member. In addition, each soldier is trained to do certain tasks that when
combined with tasks of other soldiers accomplish the objectives of the commander. Each soldier is depended on. for
his expertise. Winning on the modern battlefield depends on
harmonizing the skills of many soldiers. ·

COMPETENCE
LEADS TO.
MUTUAL TRUST
AND CONFIDENCE

BATTLEFIELD KNOWLEDGE
For units to be cohesive and combat-ready, soldiers must
know what to expect on the battlefield. This knowledge will
support them during the shock of the first few days of battle
as well as during the sustained stress of continuous operations. In the effective team, soldiers want to know as much
as possible about the enemy and the battle environment in
order to anticipate the enemy, make decisions quickly, favorably exploit the terrain, and win the battle.
ETHICAL KNOWLEDGE ·
Soldiers in cohesive, combat-ready units take pride in
successfully accomplishing their mission with honor. Violating the basic principles of American life and the rules of
warfare while defending them leads to tainted victory.
PEOPLE KNOWLEDGE
In cohesive, comb~t-ready units, soldiers and leaders know
one another. Realizing that others have similar fears and
needs helps each soldier overcome his own fears and assists
uriit members in creating the necessary spirit and Honeness."

7

Chapter 1 ------'--------------------"---~---------

DO. CHARACTERISTICS
·What soldiers and teams DO is the concrete expression
of who they ARE and what they KNOW. In every situation,
units of excellence display character and knowledge as they
successfully accomplish their mission. Following are key actions performed by soldiers and teams in units of excellence.

ASSESS

.

Teamwork assessment is critical for an effective, combatready unit. Most leaders know a great deal about the status
of their unit's teamwork and cohesion. They gather impressions by listening, observing, and monitoring soldiers' problems. But even the best leader can be blind to problems;
the communication system may fail; the pressure of other
work may cause inattention to danger signs; or the actual
status of teamwork may be misinterpreted or misrepresented.
For these reasons the leader should create a guide to assess
teamwork similar to checklists used to determine unit readiness. (Appendix A includes questions keyed to Chapters 2
through 4 that may be used for this purpose. Appendix B
provides additional guidance on a unit of excellence.)
I

The assessment process is continual.· Units grow and
change, leaders come and go, and the uncertainties of combat
impinge on unit teamwork and, consequently, on combat
readiness. In each new situation, leaders arid soldiers of
effective, combat-ready units reassess and correct to retain
and enhance teamwork.
COMMUNICATE
Communication is the process of sending and rece1vmg
information both verbally and nonverbally. Clear, uncluttered
communication is especially critical for teams on the modern
battlefield. The complexity of the battlefield, dispersion of
soldiers, actions of small teams, and disruption of conventional means of communication demand innovative communications between soldiers in squads, sections, and crews.
(FM 22-100 discusses communication in detail.)
To operate within the commander's intent, soldiers and
leaders in combat-ready teams practice both verbal and nonverbal communication. They practice it in training, in dayto-day activities, and in social activities. When combat comes,
they practice it in the heat of battle. Team members know
one another well enough to anticipate the actions of the

8

\

oth~.. They also develop a set of words-a short cut-:-that
communicates large pieces of information in brief form. In
critical situations, they use .hand signals or other forms of
nonverbal communication. They communicate within their
team as well as with surrounding units.
MAKE DECISIONS
Decisions are made at every level of the Army. For example, on the battlefield, a. squad. member has to decide what
he can do to help other team members when he becomes
aware of an enemy threat. When the squad member reports
to the squad leader, the squad leader then has to make
critical decisions and respond to the enemy so that his squad
can take the initiative and make the enemy fight on his
terms. Once the squad leader notifies the platoon leader of
the situation, the platoon. leader has to make decisions about
taking the initiative on a larger scale. At each. higher level,
the problems become more complex. The use of the chain of
command allows these· decisions to take: place at the proper
place and time. Leaders :in cohesive units use the initiative
and creative efforts of team members by giving them planning and decision-making responsibilities. When this is done,
soldiers know the ope;ration and learn to do the. right thing
within the commander's intent when necessary.
.

LEADERS IN
COHESIVE UNITS
GIVE THEIR
SUBORDINATES
PLANNING AND
DECISION-MAKING
RESPONSIBILITIES

. .

TRAIN
The teamwork necessary for cohesive, combat-ready teams
requires training. It involves mastering set procedures, such
as battle drills or map reading. It also requires training in
the processes of doing things, such as communicating or
thinking on one's feet. Teams will more likely react without
hesitation in combat when they have practiced what to do
in realistic training. All training should be accomplished
without unnecessarily risking the safety of soldiers or equipment. Careless accidents can significantly harm unit cohesion
and teamwork.

TEAM CHARACTERISTICS
Effective teams possess most of the .BE-KNOW-DO characteristics described above. Of course teams vary from crew
to crew, section to section, and squad to squad. Each has
its own character and unique ways of doing things. Each
finds itself in different situations with different ·people.

9

Cohesive teams that are already effective receive new
soldiers and leaders from time to time. When this happens,
the teams have to regroup and spend time integrating the
new members. Occasionally, groups of people are together
for some time but never form an effective team. Other situations involve COHORT units in which an already-formed
team of soldiers joins an already-formed leadership team.
When this happens, time must be spent in joining these two
teams into one effective combat-ready team. Appendix C
contains one soldier's view of the process that a COHORT
unit goes through. (It is also a good description of what
goes on in the development of any team.)
Regardless of how the unit is formed, it is important to
remember that all units go through a fairly well-defined
process of development. The stages of this process are formation, development, and sustainment. While these stages
follow in sequence, they have flexible boundaries, and many
things can cause a unit to move back and forth from one
stage to another. For example, third squad, first platoon,
has been together for some time and functions as an effective
combat-ready team. The team members are used to, and trust,
one another, and their squad is a source of pride to them.
The squad leader's job is to sustain the squad's high
performance level. This squad is in the sustainment stage.
As frequently happens, two of the squad members are transferred, one leaves active duty, and three new soldiers arrive
to take their places. Now the team is faced with breaking
in three new team members. It will take time for each of
the new soldiers to feel at home and to be accepted. Each
must learn the way the team operates. Each must demonstrate the ability to contribute to the team before he is
accepted. It will take time to trust and be trusted. Gradually,
as the team shares experiences, the new members will begin
to share its values and goals. Such shared experiences are
necessary for soldier integration. In short, it will be some
time before the team is in the sustainment stage again.
The following chart describes the three stages of tea~
development in terms of challenges for the soldier and actions
required of the leader and the unit.

10

...

STAGES OF TEAM DEVELQPMENT
Leader and Unit Actions

Soldier Challenges
F

0
R
M
A
T

G
E
N

E
R

A

• Belonging and Acceptance
• Settling Personal and Family
Concerns
• Learning About Leaders
and Other Soldiers

• Listen to and Care for Soldiers
• Reward Positive Contributions
• Set Professional Example
• Develop Reception and Orientation
for Soldiers and Families
• Communicate Unit Values,
Mission, and Heritage

• Facing the Uncertainty of War
• Coping with Fear of Unknown,
Injury, and Death
• Adjusting to Sights and
Sounds of War
• Adjusting to Separation from
Home and Family

• Reassure with Calm Presence
• Provide Stable Unit Situation
• Talk with Each Soldier
• Assist Soldiers to Deal with
Immediate Problems
• Communicate Survival/Safety Tips
• Establish Buddy System

• Trusting Leaders and Other
Soldiers
• Finding Close Friends
• Deciding Who is in Charge
• Accepting the Way Things
Done
·•
,,. Adjusting to Feelings About
How Things Ought to be Done
• Overcoming Family vs Unit ConfJict

• Trust and Encourage Trust
• Allow Growth While Keeping Control
• Identify and Channel Emerging Leaders
• Establish Clear Lines of Authority
• Develop Soldiers and Unit Goals
• Train ~ a Unit for Combat
• Build Pride through Accomplishment
p Develop Self-'Evaluation Habits
•· Be Fair and Give Responsibility

• Surviving
• Demon$trating Competence
• Becoming a Team Member Quickly
• Learning about the Enemy
• L~ming about the BattlefieJd
• Avoiding Life-Threatening Mistakes

• Demonstrate Competence
• Know the Soldiers
• Pace Soldier Battlefield Integration
• Provide Stable Unit Climate
• Develop Safety Awareness for
Improved Readiness

• Trusting Others
• Sharing Ideas and Feelings Freely
• Assisting Other Team Members
• Sustaining Trust and Confidence
• Sharing Mission and Values
• Experiencing Feelings of Pride in Unit
• Assisting New Members
· • Coping with Personal and
Family Problems

• Demonstrate Trust
• Focus on Teamwork, Training, and Maintaining
• Respond to Soldier Problems
• Develop More Challenging Training
• Build Pride and Spirit
Through Unit Military,
Sports, Social. and
Spiritual Activities

• Adjusting to Continuous Operations
• Coping with Casualties
• Adjusting to Enemy Actions
• Overcoming Boredom
• Avoiding Rumors
• Controlling Fear, Anger,
Despair, and Panic

• Observe Sleep Discipline
• Sustain Safety Awareness
• Inform Soldiers
• Know and Deal with Soldier Perceptions
• .Keep Soldiers Productively Busy
• Use After Action Reviews
• Act Decisively in Face of Panic

L

I

0
N

s
T
A

cc
0 R

Ml
BT

A I

G

T C

E

A
L

D
E

v
E
L

0

p

M

G
E
N

*'

E
R

A
L

E
N
T

s
T
A
G
E

s
u
s
T
A

c ·C
0 R

Ml

BT
Al
T C
A
L

G
E
N
E
R

I

A

N
M

L

E

N
T

cc
0 R

s

Ml

T
A

A I

G
E

BT
TC

A
L

11

- - - - - -

The leader must realize that developing into a team is
not an easy or a rapid process for people who are basically
strangers. His primary role is to encourage acceptance, open
communication, develop team members' reliance on one anc
other, and promote team acceptance of shared standards and ..
.·values. Further, he must become involved in bonding between
team members and bonding of team mem hers to himself as
the leader. He must set and enforce standards and set the
example in the develOpment of closer relationships.

SUMMARY
This ch~pter has presented a picture of what the cohesive,
combat-ready team must BE-KNOW-DO and the stages ·
through which it must pass to become such a team. When
soldiers join a unit, they deserve the best the Army has to
offer. They join a profession that demands certain values
and standards in return for a chance to serve their country.
Developing soldiers to the best possible level prepares them
for the demands of combat. Excellence in training that develops their competence cannot be short cut. Their survival
and the accomplishment of the mission depend on the ability
of their unit to become a. cohesive fighting team. The following pages will discuss how these cohesive teams can be
formed, developed, and sustained.

12

...

Forming Combat-Ready Teams
The first events in the new soldier's life in the unit make
critical and lasting impressions. Good impressions created
by an effective reception begin to build the soldier's trust
and confidence in his new team. This chapter discusses what
the leader can expect during the formation of a combat-ready
team, what actions the leader can take to guide this process,
how combat changes the process, and what the leader can
do in combat to form a combat-ready team.

THE FORMATION STAGE
Initially, the new soldier is concerned about fitting in and
belonging. He wants a place on the team, but he is not
sure how others will accept him. Any person who moves
into a new community with new schools and new friends
experiences these growing pains. Every soldier experiences
this adjustment when he enters the Army and learns to live
with many different types of people. He goes through a process of checking out other soldiers and his leaders. The more
he gets to know them, the more he realizes how much they
have in common and the more comfortable he feels with
them. He reexperiences the same feelings and uncertainty
every time he moves into a new unit.
13

Chapter 2 --------------·---~-------------

Each soldier adjusts to this new experience differently.
Some soldiers "come on strong,'' bragging about past exploits or telling "war stories" from past Army experiences.
Others adjust by withdrawing and watching quietly until
they begin to trust others in the unit. As trust develops,
they participate more actively. Others achieve a balance
somewhere between. Some adjust quickly while others fit in
more slowly. A few need considerable help from the leader;
occasionally, a soldier is not able to· adjust to the team at
all. But all soldiers go through some concern about whether
or not they belong in the unit.

LEADER ACTIONS
The leader assists a new soldier's entry into a team by
realizing that the soldier is searching for answers to some
basic questions concerning the team's activities. What are
the goals of this group? To be the best in the field? To
have the lowest deadline rate? To be the best in post softball? Where do I fit in? What is going to be required of me
by my friends and by my leaders? How much effort am I
going to have to put in to· accomplish my daily duties?
The leader also understands the soldier's concerns as he
attempts to become a team member. With these questions
in mind, the leader develops a systematic reception and
orientation program designed to ease the new soldier's transition into the team.

Work Concerns. For the leader, it is not enough to simply
give each new soldier a quick in-briefing and assign him to
a sponsor and a duty position. The leader takes the time
and effort necessary to coordinate the reception of the new
member into the team. This concern for the processing of
the soldier takes place from the fire team or section level
on up and requires that the leader speak to the new soldier
daily to see if he is doing the assigned tasks as energetically
as required.
The leader spends time talking to the new soldier in a
systematic manner for weeks after the initial reception to
ensure he is developing the appropriate goals and understands how his actions contribute to the overall performance
·. of the team. This may require that the leader sit down with
the soldier after duty hours or during lunch breaks to ask
him questions about the standards of the team. The soldier
14

- - - - - -

may have questions or suggestions concerning the operation
of the team. They may discuss the new soldier's responsibilities and how they fit into the overall goals of the team.
This exchange of information ensures that the new soldier
understands what the team is trying to accomplish.
Further, the leader checks on the new soldier to see if
there is a problem with fitting in or abiding by formal and
informal rules, such as meeting appearance standards, yell- .
ing unit mottos when saluting, or joining the unit's athletic
teams. Time spent by the leader on these activitie~ helps
the soldier become a functioning member of the team. It
also allows the leader to check on the team to see if the
group is maintaining its motivation to be the best and to
accomplish the organization's goals.

Personal Concerns. Leaders recognize that most soldiers
have an initial desire to contribute to the team, to be, part
of the team effort. They build on this personal motivation
by realizing that each soldier is different. Each has different
abilities, and each learns things in different ways at different speeds. Some soldiers are challenged by progressively
more difficult, yet achievable, goals. As they become more
GOmpetent and reliable, leaders reward their achievements
and give them more responsibility.
The leader who looks for positive contributions and gives
praise, who takes the position that every soldier is a good
soldier until proven otherwise, and who understands that
each soldier has strengths that can fit in with the strengths
of others to form a strong team, establishes a climate for
success.
The new soldier is concerned with whether the leader
really ''cares about me and my situation." If seemingly uncaring things are done during the soldier's first days in the
unit (being left out of major training events, brushed off by
supposedly "busy" leaders, left waiting for days fo be inprocessed), they will be remembered and could harm the soldier's integration into the team. When it is said that the
"leader cares for his soldiers," it means that he is genuinely
concerned about the problems that the soldier facesfrom
day one. He cares "bone deep" not just "skin deep."
If the soldier has personal problems, caring means that
the leader strives to assist him in dealing with them,
whether they are uncovered during his reception or occur

GOOD LEADERS
DEVELOP
INDIVIDUAL
SOLDIER STRENGTHS
INTO TEAM
STRENGTHS

15

- - - - - -

during his stay in the unit. FM 22~101 helps leaders develop
the necessary skills to assist soldiers in their development
and to help them solve their problems. Assisting soldiers in
dealing with their feelings and concerns not only reflects
caring leadership, it also enhances their effectiveness.

TEAM FORMATION ACTIVITIES
Whether the group has been together for some time or is
concerned with inducting new members, the above principles
apply. Leaders at every level must take the time necessary
to properly receive and orient the members of the team
toward the agreed upon goals while balancing individual
needs of team members. Well-developed reception and orientation activities make the leader's team building efforts
more efficient.
Reception. A well-planned reception is an important first
· step in creating a cohesive team. Although often thought of
as primarily a family program, the reception should address
the needs of all soldiers. It is true that the presence of
family members adds to the complexity of "getting settled,"
but the single soldier who lives in the barracks has questions, problems, and concerns that are equally important.
Units must reinforce soldier confidence so that no matter
·what happens, soldiers feel they can always depend on their
leaders for assistance for themselves and, if appropriate,
their families. If they trust the leader, confidence begins to
build immediately.
Personnel and administrative problems associated with
moving into a new unit are handled promptly and successfully by assigning sponsors to assist new members. Effective
leaders recognize that sponsors do more than ensure that
the personal needs of. soldiers are met. Sponsors also model
for new soldiers what the team leader expects of members
of the team. The team leader selects and briefs the sponsor
in such a manner that he realizes the importance of the
assignment. The leader tells the sponsor exactly what is to
be done and that being chosen as a sponsor means he represents what members of the team should look and act like.
Anything less than proper behavior is unacceptable.
A successful reception includes being sure that the soldier's pay is accurately processed in a timely manner; that
his personnel, medical, and other records are in their proper

16

place; that he has all his personal equipment; that he has
an adequate place to sleep; that he knows where key places
such as, the dining facility, hospital, chapel, and recreational
facilities are located;..and that he is shown the kind of caring essential for developing his loyalty to the team.
·
The· Army family is linked to the unit not only by the
soldier but also by the opportunities it has to partidpate in
unit activities. The unit leader should strive to develop bonds
between the families in the unit to enhance each family:s
identification with the unit.
It is important that family members understand the
service member's duties and the unit's specific mission.
They should have the chance to learn about the uniqueness
of life in the military, to include information about the unit
and its history and about available services and benefits.
Such activities. as family day programs or organization
days allow the family to. visit the unit and learn firsthand
about soldier and unit activities. A well-inf~rmed family is
usually more willing to make the personal sacrifices required
to adequately support the soldier and his unit.· An uninformed family is likely to see itself as an unwilling victim
of military life. An informed family is more likely to view
itself as contributing to the service member's care~r and the
unit's mission.

A family's attitude toward the Army is often based on
perceptions of how the leader treats the soldier and his
family. Therefore, the unit leader develops and conveys to
the soldier and his.family an attitude that clearly recognizes
the importance and. legitimacy of. family needs. This begins
with the leader's appreciation of the impact of unit and mission requirements on family life. It also includes his awareness of how family needs affect the soldier and the unit.
The Army family can expect to make sacrifices in support
of the soldier's career and even of the unit's mission. But
the unit and family relationship . is a partnership, and· the
leader takes every opportunity to promote family well-beihg.
This is more than saying the right words or expressing good
intentions. Actions which clearly express the ieader's com·
mitment to family well-being must be implemented. The
more welcomed family members feel and the more informed
they are about the unit, the more likely the soldier will
commit himself to the unit's goals and missions.

17

Chapter 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . , - - - - - - - - -

Orientation. Early in his time in the unit, after accomplishing most of the administrative and family details, the soldier
goes through an orientation process. During orientation he
receives information that is common knowledge among the
soldiers already in the unit. Orientation varies from unit to
unit, depending on the time, leadership, and situation. But
no matter how it is done, this is a time for the unit to tell
the soldier about life in the unit and explain the rules.
Orientation may be done in a group or individually. If a
leader uses a group method, it is important that he also
spend time in face-to-face conversation with the soldier. Getting to know each soldier begins to build the trust necessary
for team membership. Also, information communicated by
the leadership team is reinforced by unit members as the
new soldier begins to fit into the unit. Some important areas
to cover in the orientation include• Unit values and standards.
• Unit mission and goals.
• Unit standing operating procedures.
• Unit heritage.
The leader begins to communicate the values and standards
of the unit during the orientation process and reinforces
them often during the soldier's stay in the unit.

Values such as courage, candor, competence, and commitment are communicated to the soldier directly or indirectly
during initial entry training. Research has shown that during IET, values that enhance teamwork become more important while values that reflect individual accomplishment
become l~ss important. IET begins to instill team values,
and the process continues as the soldier moves from unit to
unit. It is a process of leadership.
Teaching such values is not an attempt to drastically
change the soldier, but to instill in him values that history
has proven necessary for developing cohesive, combat-ready
teams. They work! For example, honesty is the basis for
trust, and trust is necessary for the kind of teamwork needed
on the battlefield. Such trust increases the chances of survival and winning in squads, sections, crews, and platoons.
If soldiers think that their leader or fellow soldier cannot
be trusted to tell the truth in a critical situation, they will

18

--------------------------------Chapter 2

only take care of themselves when a crisis occurs. If soldiers
are going to become productive team members, they must
begin to share the values that enhance team performance.
How does the leader transmit these values? Generally
speaking, he does it by example. But the leader can choose
two· or three critically important values and clearly communicate them to the soldier during the orientation process.
For instance, he can transmit the importance of competence,
honesty, and teamwork by simply telling the soldier that he
is expected to learn his job, tell the truth, and work closely
with other soldiers. However, this is only a beginning. The
leader must then set the example by doing these things himself, organize and run the unit so that the values are reinforced, and reward those soldiers who show that they share
the values.

SHARED VALUES
ARE NECESSARY
FOR COHESIVE
TEAMWORK

These values will become the standards of the unit. Standards are those principles or rules by which behaviors and
tasks are measured as successfully accomplished. If honesty
is practiced by soldiers and leaders alike, all in the unit
will begin to expect it. Soldiers will measure other soldiers
by it. It gradually becomes a criterion for acceptance into
the team.
Other standards of behavior to which soldiers are held
are saluting, promptness, proper haircuts, and proper wear
of the uniform. These standards support the value of discipline. They are important for cohesive teamwork because
they encourage selfdiscipline in the soldier. When he takes
pride in his appearance as a soldier and feels like a soldier,
he will act like a soldier. When members of a squad, section,
or platoon share these values and adhere to the standards
that flow from them, they are a more cohesive team.
The leader clearly states the standards of the unit to the
new soldier. He ensures that the standards are simple, easy
to understand, attainable, and support the goal of combat
readiness.
Once soldiers know the standards, the leader is responsible to enforce them fairly through both rewards and punishment. Soldiers who develop discipline and live up to high
unit standards deserve reward. Often, oral recognition is
enough to let· soldiers know that they are appreciated for
sharing the values and standards of the unit. Soldiers who

19

Chapter 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

do not uphold unit standards and values need counseling,
or punishment. The goal of both rewards and punishments
is to enhance teamwork and thus combat readiness.
SHAR ED UNIT
STANDARDS BECOME
A CRITERION OF
TEAM MEMBERSHIP

As the unit develops into a cohesive team, members themselves require unit values and standards for acceptance into
the team. Both the appointed leader and the informal
leaders set examples that influence new members to adopt
the standards of .the unit. By leaders sharing in the unit's
day-to-day experiences, always available to their soldiers,
they communicate their example as quality leaders and
soldiers to all unit members.
It is important to remember that unit values and standards are not developed in a vacuum. They need to conform
to those of the parent unit and other units with whom the
soldiers work. If soldiers perceive differences in the way standards are applied in different units, morale and teamwork
suffer. Rather than lower unit standards, the leader needs
to explain the importance of high standards so that soldiers
can take pride in meeting them.

Unit mission and goals need to be firmly established in
the soldier's mind so that he has no question about what
the unit is trying to accomplish. As each soldier accepts and
commits himself to the mission and goals of the unit, cohesive teamwork will develop.
TEAMWORK REQUIRES
COMMITMENT TO
THE UNIT MISSION
AND GOALS

20

The soldier's contribution to mission ~ccomplishment is
learning, practicing, and becoming proficient in his job.
When he joins the unit, the soldier wants to know what his
assignment is. He wants to know exactly what is expected
of him and what the standards are by which he can measure his accomplisliment. These questions· are best answered
during orientation in a personal conversation with his immediate leader. In discussing job expectations, the leader can
highlight aspects of the job that will help the soldier meet
his own professional military goals. In every case, duty
expectations should be related to team accomplishments.
This allows the soldier to begin thinking as a team member
and reinforces the leader's commitment to team development.

--------------------------------Chapter 2

Another area the leader must explain during orientation
is the unit's standing operating procedure-the way the unit
operates. The company has a written SOP that each soldier
reads when he first enters the unit. It describes how the
unit conducts day-to-day business. Beyond that, the platoon
and squad have added requirements that help accomplish
the mission. These are communicated directly by the platoon
sergeant and the squad leader. This process is important
because it shortens the time needed to become a working
member of the team. If the. leader communicates clearly in
the beginning, fewer problems will arise later. The more routine knowledge the soldier has in the beginning, the quicker
he feels comfortable in accomplishing the task at handpreparing for combat.
Instilling unit heritage can begin during the orientation
process. This heritage, which includes the unit's symbols and
history, is the heart of its spirit and identity. It develops
morale and esprit and it builds pride and loyalty.
Traditionally, unit symbols such as unit insignia, mottos,
colors, and guidons serve two purposes. First, they identify
the soldier as a member of an exclusive group. Second, and
more important, they instill a "we" feeling among members
and help instill within each team member a commitment to
a unit with its own unique identity. In short, symbols instill
and maintain unit cohesion.
In the Army, the leader's task is to lead each new member to identify with and become a contributing part of the
unit. It is not enough for a soldier merely to do a job for
the unit; he must want to join the unit. At each level, these
symbols assist units in developing a sense of being different
from all other units with whom they come into contact.
Knowledge of unit history is also important to the soldier's membership in the unit. The more positive things the
soldier knows about his unit, the easier it is for him to identify with it, but these need not focus only on easy success.
To sustain soldiers in the crisis of combat, it helps to include
examples of "when things went wrong." Such examples can
emphasize how predecessors did not give up and showed

21

remarkable endurance, flexibility, and, when necessary, self~
sacrifice to gain the ultimate victory. Discussions, pictures,
award rooms, pamphlets, classes, and ceremonies are appropriate ways to "get the word out." The following information
is important for inclusion in unit histories:
. • Origin of the unit.
• Participation in battles and significant results.
• Major accomplishments.
• Heroes and their achievements.
• Development of customs and traditions.
Some companies can trace their heritage through several
wars. Smaller units (platoon, section, squad, or team level)
that do not have established histories, customs, and traditions can identify with units at higher levels, such as
regiments or battalions, that have illustrious histories. Identifying with the exploits of a type of unit such as infantry in
the Battle of the Bulge, transportation in the Red Ball
Express, or the "Damned Engineers" of the 291st Engineer
Battalion of World War TI can also be helpful. In addition,
. a smaller unit that has a distinguished soldier such as
Eisenhower or Patton as a former member has a valuable
resource for developing pride and commitment to unit goals.
While older history is important, more recent history
should not be overlooked. There may be times in the recent
past when the unit or an individual soldier excelled in mission accomplishment, performed an heroic act, or led the
unit to overcome great difficulty and hardship to achieve
outstanding performance in a critical training exercise.
Communicating unit heritage causes members to appreciate the units' significant history and symbolism. A soldier
who appreciates his unit's symbols and its past deeds and
heroes will want to live up to its excellence and maintain
the proud traditions. He will not want to let those past
heroes down.

TEAM FORMATION IN COMBAT
Combat presents unique challenges to team formation.
While the formation process remains basically the same, combat alters the way it is accomplished. Variations because of
type of unit, type of battlefield, and combat situation make
exact predictions difficult. But the goal of the process

22

remains the same-to help the soldier become a member of
the team as quickly as possible. This benefits both the team.
and the soldier. S.L.A. Marshall, eminent military historian,
records the importance of these first few hours in the combat
situation:
It has happened too frequently in our Army that a line
company was careless about the manner in which it
received a new replacement. The stranger was not introduced to his superiors nor was there time for him to
feel the friendly interest of his immediate associates
before he was ordered forward with the attack. The
result was the man's total failure in battle and his
return to the rear as a mental case. 3

To preclude such a disastrous situation, the leader must
consider the different dimensions that combat introduces.
First, the time that the unit has to receive the new soldier
is compressed. That which occurs in hours and days in peacetime is shortened to minutes and hours in combat.
Next, the space in which things happen is altered. For
instance, in peacetime the formal orientation process takes
place close to the soldier's company. In combat, the place
of his first orientation to the theater of operations may be .
far removed from his company. Furthermore, the soldier
feels more restricted in his movement in combat than m
peacetime.
· The soldier's concerns and feelings are also different. In
peacetime, he is concerned with getting physically settled in
his home, be it in the barracks or in an apartment with his
family. In combat, although he remains concerned about
things back home, his focus shifts to the fear and uncertainty of war. He fears the unknown as well as death in a
strange place among strange people. Getting himself emotionally settled with friendly faces in his new unit is very
important.
Further, the environment is different. Death and injury
are commonplace on the battlefield. The real noises and confusion of war and isolation from friendly faces are not easily
simulated in peacetime.
Finally, the level at which important information is
transmitted is different. In peacetime, information important
to the soldier is transmitted at post, division, battalion, and

23

,
Chapter 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

company levels. In combat, however, this may not necessarily be the case. As the new soldier processes through the
theater, division, brigade, battalion, and company levels,
leaders need to be actively involved in the orientation process to ensure that the soldier is provided with the most
important information-what he needs to know to be effective in the combat zone. This will make the jobs of the company commander, platoon leader, squad leader, and team
leader easier. These leaders will ultimately be the ones who
ensure the success of the soldier's orientation.

RECEPTION AND ORIENTATION
Let us now discuss what might be covered at the various
levels of command as the soldier passes through the integration process. The soldier will probably begin at the
theater level once he enters the overall combat area. The
information the soldier receives here will be very general,
covering the mission, overall situation, and theater policies
such as leave and hospitalization procedures. As the soldier
moves from theater to corps to division and on down, the
information will become more specific. A key point, however,
is that the messages presented should be positive and show
concern for the soldier's well-being. Commanders, staff officers, and leaders must also check with each other to make
sure that the information they present at the various levels
is not contradictory.
When the new soldier joins his company in combat, he
comes with a variety of questions. He is thinking of such
things as "What will the people be like? Will the leaders
and other soldiers be people whom I can trust and depend
on? Will they take care of me? Will they accept me? What
will my job be like?" There may not be a great deal of time
available before the unit faces combat, so a quick, positive
welcome from the entire chain of command is crucial. A positive reception and welcome to the unit will help the soldier
feel secure.
The company commander should greet the new soldier
personally if at all possible. He should welcome the soldier
and cover several topics with him. For example, it might be
useful for the company commander to discuss the current
tactical situation, the company's recent activities, and the
upcoming events. He should reassure each soldier that he
will be taken care of in all areas, including mail and proper
24

--------~--------------~-------Chapter 2

medical care and evacuation in case he ·should be wounded.
The first sergeant could assist the company commander by
explaining variOus company. SOPs to the soldier.
The company commander .or first sergeant then assigns
the soldier to· his platoon and hands the. soldier off _to· his
platoon leader and platoon sergeant. The platoon leader
covers platoon SOPs and basic information the soldier needs
to know to' work arid survive in the platoon.
course, at
platoon level arid below, the leader will get right down to
the basic information the ·soldier needs to know to stay
alive. The squad leader .will cover the numerous ·details the
soldier needs to know. to. operate in the squad. .

of

The squad leader is the key individual involved in successfully orienting the new soldier, for he probably has more
direct influence on the soldier than anyone in the unit. The
squad leader must pres~nt calm, unhurried, and confident
presence that will help calm the soldier down and make him
feel at ease ,in thjs new. situation. The squad leader must
also be alert to the many thoughts and feelings that are
probably churning inside the ne\V team memb~r. Thesquad
leader should encourage the soldi~r to talk .. aboUt his concerns; he should . listen to the soldier and reassure him.
Furthfilr, the squad leader ne.eds to give th,e soldier specific
guidance about how the squad operates (SOPs) and safety
tips on how to ·minimize his chances of being killed or
wounded. The squad leader needs to stress that the squad
works together and· that he must do his job well in order to
protect other squad and team members;

a

THE SQUAD LEADER
IS THE KEY
TO· SUCCESSFUL
ORIENTATION

Th~ squad leader ca'n use othe.r experienced, positive soldiers in the squad to work the soldier into the unit.,. It is
9ritical that the members of .the ~quad personally welcome
the new soldier and help him "learn the ropes." They must
understand that everyone's safety is at stake.. The soldier
· must be quickly brought "on board" t~ d~velop the teamwork
necessary for combat survival.

THE BUDDY SYSTEM
The squad leader w:lll probably be extremely busy in the
midst of combat operations. To help with the integration: of
the new soldier, he can use a ·"buddy system" approach.· He
must be careful to place the soldier with a buddy team who
will be positive ·roi'e models. They should be experienced
25

Chapter 2 ~-------'--------------------------

combat soldiers who will teach the new soldier the right
things to do to stay alive. They should be soldiers who
wholeheartedly support the chain of command. This buddy
team should also teach the soldier how to work as part of
the overall team. These experienced soldiers are actually
serving as mentors to the new soldier.
When the soldier is ready to pull his weight, he and
another soldier will become a buddy team. They will assist
one another in many ways on the battlefield. In the NBC
environment, for example, they will assist one another in
putting on protective equipment and in conducting decontamination activities. Administering first aid in case of
injury and sharing security duties during periods of rest,
eating, and personal hygiene are other e~amples.
Soldiers will work with their buddies and, at the same
time, actively function as part of the larger squad team.
They will go to others in the squad for support based on
each soldier's unique skills and. strengths. As time passes,·
both the pairs and the squad will develop more cohesive
teamwork.
Buddies will intimately know each other and pick up cues
from one another just by watching. When a soldier on patrol
moves a certain way, ·his buddy will know what it means
and react accordingly with no words being said. This is just
as true if the buddies are working together to repair a
. burned-out transmission on a tank or using forklifts to load
supplies from the depot onto a truck. Buddies will know the
other's strengths and weaknesses and will complement one
another, the strengths of both enhancing combat power and
team effectiveness. They can exchange data to make accurate judgments quickly. They will cross train each other in
their specialized skills, each expecting the other to pick up
and use those skills if one is disabled.
·
A properly selected buddy team causes several positive
things to happen. First, the new soldier begins to develop
close ties of loyalty and friendship to the buddy and other
squad members and sees how he and his buddy are part of
the team effort at fire team and squad levels. He develops
a strong sense of commitment to his unit from the bottom

26

). .

up: buddy team, fire team, squad, section, and platoon. If
the chain of command has done this right, the new soldier
will rapidly become "combat smart," committed to his fellow
soldiers and his unit. In the long run, this should greatly
improve his effectiveness in combat.
Leaders in combat support and combat service support
units should also practice these principles. They are key to
ensuring successful integration of all soldiers into combat
situations.

SUMMARY
This chapter has discussed the formation stage of soldier
team development. Through understanding the needs of the
soldiers, the leader can act to ensure they. achieve the sense
. of belonging necessary for a combat-ready team. This formation process involves two important steps, reception and orientation. Although the context and some aspects of these two
steps change from peacetime to combat, the importance of
the process remains. In fact, because of the changes in
combat, the process becomes even more critical. The buddy
system is important to the formation process in combat. The
foundation for teamwork developed during this process
guides the soldier through the first critical days in the unit
and prepares the unit for the important tasks that lie ahead.
When the soldier and unit emerge from this formation stage,
they are ready to further develop into a cohesive, combatready team.

27

Developing CombatReady Teams
The leader must be ready to use the new soldiers as soon
as possible after reception and orientation. Although proper
integration requires ample time for reception and orientation
activities, boredom will set in if soldiers are not put into
productive training and work quickly. Therefore, the leader
must take the initiative and get the soldiers involved in the
team's day-to-day activities as soon as possible.
The soldier's first day in the routine activities of the unit
is important. The relationships begun that day set the tone
for the remainder of the time a soldier works within the
team. It is best for both the soldier and the unit that his
integration proceed smoothly. The leader needs to guide the
soldier's progress both through training for combat and in
combat. To assist the leader, this chapter discusses the
development stage of soldier teams. It discusses important
leader actions and unit training. Further, it discusses the
changes demanded by the combat situation and actions the
leader can take in combat to develop his soldier team.

28

-~-------------'-----------------Chapter·3

THE DEVELOPMENT STAGE
Team leaders share· responsibility for both soldier and
team development. After the soldier goes through reception
and orientation, he. begins to establish relationships of trust
with his leaders ii:nd fellow soldiers. He begins the journey
from outsider to team member. There is no clean break between the formation and development stages. The amount
of time required for the process varies, based on such factors
as leadership, nature of the group;s task, member personali"
ties and abilities, arid goals of the team.
,
The development stage is characterized by questioning ·
and sometimes by resistance. Some have called this the
"storming" stage. The ·soldier exerts his independence dur~
ing this critical stage; trying to determine just what he can
e~pect from the unit and the leader as well as from the
members of the team. His attempt to resolve these issues
may take many forms. He may ask "Who's in charge?" As
he becomes more comfortable with his surroundings, he
also feels more at home challenging and questioning those
around him, including the leadership. He may openly
criticize leaders and other team members to his trusted
associates.
The leader can see this stage occurring when he feels
resistance to his leadership. He may notice smaller groups
with their own informal leaders forming apart from the
leadership team. Team members may disrupt meetings by
arguing over minor or unrelated subjects. If soldiers do not
like the task they are given, if they do not feel that their
needs are met, if they do not understand why they are
training the way they are, or if they do not understand the
mission they are given, they question, criticize, or resist in
some way.
The issues involved in this stage of development will not
be restricted to the work place or to dealings between team
members. As the soldier becomes more involved in the life
of the unit, tensions may arise between his family and the
unit. These tensions will cause stress for the soldier who,
on the one hand, tries his best to fit into the unit and, on
th~.other, wants to take care of his family.
As time passes and the unit works together more effectively, trust begins to develop and team bonding occurs. The
process takes time and happens in predictable steps. First,

29

the soldier accepts himself as a new member with a new
role and set of responsibilities. He then gradually develops
trust for the other soldiers and the leader based on their
willingness to accept and, trust him. The soldier's fear and
distrust of other team members disappear as he realizes their
competence, worth, and concern.
As members share their thoughts and feelings about the
unit and about each other, the initial caution and stiff
formal communication turn into more relaxed conversation.
The soldier feels freer to express his feelings and ideas.
Within the team, individuals begin to pass information more
rapidly and accurately to help one another adjust to new
situations and requirements.
TRUST
AND COHESION
INCREASE AS
INDIVIDUAL GOALS
AND NEEDS ARE
MET WITHIN
THE TEAM

As the soldier sees his goals and needs being met within
the team, he begins to depend on other team members, and
they on him, thus increasing the level of trust. As members
of the team begin to depend on one another, cohesion develops. This process makes relationships become more predictable and motivates soldiers to accept team goals and to contribute to mission accomplishment.·

LEADER ACTIONS
As the leader detects signs of team growth in his unit, it
is important to exert wise leadership as he guides the developing team. He must retain unquestionable control without
alienating soldiers. Firmness of direction and respect for his
soldiers will help the leader direct the entire unit toward
mission accomplishment. The· following leader actions are
important during this stage:
• Listen.
• Establish dear lines of authority.
• Develop soldier and unit goals.
Listen. The leader must listen and respond fairly to criticisms or questions while retaining a firm grasp of the situation. When team members question authority or form into
smaller groups, conflict is likely to occur within the team.
Overreaction to these developments will likely harm more
than help. The leader must listen and interfere only when
the conflicts become disruptive or when the small groups
threaten to destroy the cohesion of the team. By listening,
the leader can discover the soldier's individual needs and
can attempt to guide him into accepting team goals.

30

During this phase, the leader has an opportunity to identify and channel potential leaders in ways productive to the
entire team. As he observes and listens, the leader can
increase his knowledge about the strengths of individual
soldiers-what they like to do and what they do well. He
can then place them in the jobs they do best.

Establish Clear Lines of :Authority. To deal with pos~ible
conflicts over team members' responsibilities and goals, th~
leader needs to establish clear policies about who has what
authority arid under what conditions each team member can
exercise authority or make- decisions for the team. The leader
should clearly establish these lines of authority with new
soldiers immediately and constantly mdnitor the situation ·
to ensure that they are being. adhered to.
The leader should explain that as the new soldiers gain
knowledge and experience on the team, their responsibilities
and authority will likely increase; In .preparing for combat,
all team members must know who is responsible to take
over if the leader becomes a casualty. Practicing this .in
training-simulating leader casualties and forcing the new
leadership to work effectively-will pay dividends in combat.

Develop Soldier and Unit Goals . . Soldiers look to their
leadership to establish goals for the unit. They want a positive direction that will challenge them and provide a chance
for reaching their potential. The leader also ha:s the responsibility to accomplish the mission and directives given to the
team by the senior leader. He must attempt to show the
soldiers of the team how their own goals and needs can be
satisfied as a direct result of working toward team goals.
To do this, the leader needs to sit down with each soldier and find out what he expects from the team both personally and professionally. The leader must also get the same
· information from his boss. The team's goals must effectively integrate the goals of the organization and the. needs
of. the individuals, to include the leader~ If soldier and team
expectations differ, this is the time to· find out. If the sol·die:r; perceives· that his needs are not important to the
leader, the process of developing a cohesive. team will seriously bog down and may never advance to more productive
stages of development.

31

A personal discussion between the leader and the soldiers
serves five important purposes:
• It establishes communication between the leader and the
members of the team.
• It lets the soldiers know what goals can realistically be
achieved through membership as an active team member.
• It helps the leader know more about the soldiers and
their needs.

• It establishes clear goals throughout the chain of command that are achievable and support the·. goals of the
higher headquarters.
• It assures the soldiers that their individual thoughts and
feelings are at least being considered by the team and
its leadership.

Periodically, the leader needs to get the soldiers together
as a team to check on progress. This allows them to share
with others what their goals are. As they begin to understand that they share common goals for themselves and
their unit, a cohesive team begins to· develop. They will
establish personal ownership of the unit goals. More and
more, they will feel like a family and will think and act as
one. This process is important before combat because it lays
a foundation for teamwork that will be indispensable when
the unit deploys.

TRAINING PRINCIPLES
Training is the heart of soldier team development, and
all unit tasks and missions are training opportunities. The
good leader capitalizes on every event, from the most
exciting to the most boring, in combat and in peacetime.
Cohesive teamwork is developed through training activities
that motivate and challenge team members. In planning
these activities, the leader needs to think constantly of developing each of his soldiers and his unit. Safety awareness
should become a "sixth sense" as the soldiers execute this
realistic training.
Training is one of the most significant ways the leader
can show that he cares. By being concerned enough for the
soldier's safety and survival in combat to provide tough and

32

-------------------------~-----Chapter 3

challenging training, the leader wins the soldier's respect
and admiration. Following are important principles of training that aid in developing cohesive units:
• Train as a unit.
• Train for combat.
• Build pride in accomplishment.
• Develop self-evaluation habits.

Train cis a Unit. The only way to develop teamwork is for
team members to do thin'gs together. This applies to training. When a training mission is assigned to a unit as a
team, soldiers· are given the opportunity to work together;
the chain of command is strengthened; and the team is
given an opportunity to experience accomplishment and
growth. When the team works together to accomplish the
mission, soldiers experience a deepening sense of unit identity. As training standards are met, unit pride develops.
Involving the total group in a unit activity means that
the activity must in some way benefit each part of the unit
and ultimately each soldier. Sometimes the benefit may
occur in the future, something that the soldiers can anticipate, such as victory in combat. More often the benefit is
closer at hand, such as completing the field exercise successfully. Some benefits are intangible, such as the feeling of
pride that -a soldier has in a job well done .. Other benefits
may be q\}ite tangible, such as praise from the commander
or time off for a job well done.
For leaders and soldiers to learn their part in unit operations, both must be present for training. This means that
during training exercises, participation must be first priority
for all soldiers.

QUALITY TRAINING
THAT DEVELOPS
TEAMWORK
MULTI PU ES
COMBAT POWER

The most tangible benefit of training is the realization
by all soldiers that the unit is either combat ready or close
to that goal. Combat readiness is best achieved by training
exercises that approximate combat, lead to achieving higher
standards, and involve all unit members in coordinated
actions. When this training is handled well, leaders and
team members become more involved in the effort, become
more aware of the strengths and competence of one another,
and learn more about the particular needs, concerns, and
interests of each soldier.

33

Chapter 3 ------------~-------------------

In training, small teams should be given as much responsibility as possible. Combat requires both coordinated action
and individual responsibility from the smaller teams that
make ·up the unit. When such training occurs, small-unit
leaders develop needed skills to en,sure proper action in the
absence of instructions from seniors in the combat situation.
This kind of training also reinforces the development of the
noncommissioned officers, increasing the respect their soldiers have for them. It is primarily in this way that leaders
become respected and valued by their sections, crews, teams,
and squads.

TRAIN TOGETHER!
FIGHT TOGETHER!
WIN TOGETHER!

EVERY GALLON
OF SWEAT
IN TRAINING
SAVES A PINT OF
BLOOD IN COMBAT

34

To achieve maximum cohesion, training goals and objectives must be defined as unit goals and objectives. The pronoun "our" should be used instead of "my." To achieve
"our" objective, "we" have to· move through this area and
secure this high ground, while protecting "our" flanks from
the reported enemy in this area. Or, "we" have to get these
five vehicles ready tonight so that "our" unit can move the
ammunition to the soldiers who need it. "Our" u~it should
emerge from the training with the feeling that "we" did this
well and "we" have to work on this. Unit members share
both the praise and· criticism as one.
Train for Combat. Training must prepare the. unit for
combat. Self-confidence during stressful times, ability to
control fear, communication in combat, and initiative in the
absence of orders need to be integral parts of the training
environment.
One thing that leaders have at their constant disposal is
the opportunity for challenging and realistic training. The
training needs to· be hard yet safe. Specific training activities that strengthen teamwork and soldier confidence include
obstacle and confidence courses and military skills competition. Other team activities are patrolling; independent squad
missions; and survival, evasion, resistance, and escape training. These activities are of special value to combat service
support units because they help reinforce the fact that they
are soldiers as well as mechanics, clerks, and technicians.
·On the battlefield, every soldier needs the corifidence .·that
he, others on the team, and team leaders have the physical
strength and the combat skills to defend each other and
the unit.

Challenging and worthwhile training both creates and
reflects unit cohesion. The soldier gains confidence in himself, his fellow soldiers, and his leaders, as well as personal
competence and confidence in his weapons and equipment,
through successful completion of challenging training. Such
training results in shared experiences among unit members
that directly contribute to increased unit and personal pride.
Soldiers need to know that they can depend on their buddies
and other units and that. together they can achieve objectives and accomplish the mission. Soldiers need to know
that as a cohesive team they can carry the fight to the
enemy and win.
More experienced. leaders may not feel the saµie sense of
excitement and adventure that younger team members feel.
However, the experienced leader E?hould never forget the les"
sons of his own youth and work hard to provide the excitement that can shape younger soldiers into a cohesive team.
An important aspect of training for combat is to help
the soldier learn how to deal with fear. The leader can first
teach the soldier about the physical effects of fear. Each
soldier must consciously think about what happens to him
when he is afraid so that when he feels fear in combat, he
will know what to expect. He must be trained to recognize
fear as a normal reaction that prepares the body to respond
to a threatening situation.

UNITS WHICH
CONSTRUCTIVELY
DEAL WITH FEAR
MULTIPLY
COMBAT POWER

Second, when planning training, the leader can develop
training tasks that require moral and physical courage. The
soldier should face situations in training that generate fear
and anxiety so that he can learn to deal with them.
Third, the leader should tell the soldier that. extreme fear
occurs in combat and he must prepare for it in advance;
that fear is greatest just before the action; that fear is
greater when in defense, when under artillery attack, when
under bombing attack, when attacking at night, when helpless to retaliate, or when uninformed about the situation.
J\nowing what the symptoms of fear are and when to expect
fear makes the soldier's situation .more predictable. He can.
determine in advance how to cope with it. All men feel fear
in combat; it is a normal human response.

35

Soldiers should also practice in training the type of
communications required in combat. Person"to-person communication is perhaps the first familiar element of the training environment that is lost in the combat situation. In the
midst of deafening noise, the voices of other soldiers are
extremely difficult to hear. The new, inexperienced soldier
may find himself alone in a hostile and dangerous environment, out of contact with those who directed his movements in training. Such loss of contact can only be practiced
in training, but it needs to be done. The soldier inust be
aware that loss of communication may occur, taught what
to do when it occurs, and given a chance to react to it in
field exercises.
During training, the leader needs to assign increased
responsibility to soldiers who will take it. On the battlefield
of the future, the successful accomplishment of a mission
may very well hinge on the actions of isolated teams led by
new leaders. Leaders must be soldiers who have shown a
willingness to assume responsibility in training. Trai:Ilihg
gives the leader the opportunity to identify potential leaders.
The soldier who gives his best on the battlefield does so,
in part, because he feels responsible for the success of his
unit. To the extent that soldiers feel such responsibility for
winning, they actually feel that the danger is less-and it
is! A crucial task of the, leader is to instill and develop pride
and spirit in the unit by building personal responsibility
through assigning responsibility and holding the soldiers accountable for their actions.
·

Build Pride in Accomplishment. Pride comes from respect
for the unit's ability. Being part of a team that performs
well in challenging training instills confidence and pride like
no other experience short of combat. Thus training must be
unit training that all soldiers can be pro:ud of.
Performance must be rewarded on a unit basis. When it
is good, the unit ·should be rewarded as a unit, When performance is not good, the unit should work together as a
unit to improve. The leader must instill the belief that it is
important for all soldiers who are performing well to help
those who are having difficulty so that the team,,as.a 1,:qµit,
can perform better. The leader must further instill the belief
that all soldiers have the responsibility to accept assistance
if it helps the unit do better.

36

The measurement of successful training should be meeting an attainable, realistic standard rather than just completing a block of training hours. Even if a unit must stay
on the range or in the woods for an extra: half day to
achieve a training goal, the unit pride that results is well
worth the disrupted schedule. Or better yet, if the· unit
accomplishes all training objectives before the planned time,
the soldiers can come home early.
Finally, for the soldier to respect the unit, he must feel
that the unit respects him. A soldier who lacks pride in himself and his own performance feels no pride in his unit or
his leaders. Thus, it is imperative that the leader show
respect for each soldier to encourage self-esteem and pride
so that the soldier can have a sense of pride in his unit.

UNIT PRIDE
COMES FROM
RESPECT FOR THE
UNIT'S ABILITY

Develop Self-Evaluation Habits. In training, the unit
works toward specific performance standards. Unit selfevaluation that focuses on these standards is a must. Cohesion c.a:n be enhanced if the unit conducts its own after
action· review with individual soldiers participating in
problem-solving situations. After action reviews conducted on
uriit basis, especially those in which team members discuss
their own performances, help develop the feeling that
improvement is important to leaders and soldiers alike.

a

TEA:M DEVELOPMENT IN COMBAT
Combat adds new and complex dimensions to team
development. S.L.A. Marshall counsels soldiers to keep their
eye on the critical place of the team in successful combat
execution:
.The emphasis should be kept eternally on the main
point: His [the soldier's] first duty is to join his force to
others! Squad unity comes to full cooperation between
each man and his neighbor. 4
DIFFERENCES IN COMBAT
The dimensions of time and space, the feelings of
soldiers, the level of critical information, and the environ•m'etW>affeet ;1the development stage in combat. In terms of
ti~e a~d space, the team literally develops under fire. In
peacetime, the unit has time to practice training missions.
In combat, the time available to practice for an actual

37

Chapter 3 -----~-------------------------

mission is greatly diminished or even nonexistent. The
leader must use any available time to sharpen basic combat
skills. Rarely, if ever, will the team be far enough from the
combat zone for concentrated training and practice.
In peacetime training, the soldier learns technical and
tactical skills and has time to apply them to unit operations. In wartime, he brings these skills when he joins the
unit, but he has to learn their application in the specific unit and battle environment. The soldier will have to
learn what the realistic threat is, how the enemy thinks and
operates, and how to react in the real situation in response
to enemy movement and activity. Training in combat
usually involves conducting actual operations. The quicker
the soldier learns specific techniques, the quicker he will be
accepted as a team member.
The soldier will find it difficult at times to be accepted.
The more experienced soldiers have shared difficult and
dangerous times that have created a bond between them.
The new soldier will gradually be accepted as he also
shares experiences in the unit and proves his competence.
There is a sense of urgency about the battlefield. Time is
critical; soldiers' lives are at stake. One fear of the
soldier is that he will somehow cause serious injury or
death to other soldiers. He also fears being wounded or
killed himself.
All the dynamics of this new situation cause stress on
the soldier. The leader and other soldiers can help him find
ways to cope with this stress. Normal outlets for tension
and stress may not be available to him, thereby requiring
stress reduction efforts on his part. Some soldiers will
become hardened to the situation. Others will talk about
their fears and concerns to a buddy or a leader. Yet others
will try to put these fears and problems out of their minds.
The key is that they deal with the stress in some manner.
(FM 26-2 provides information on dealing with stress.) ·

LEADER ACTIONS
The leader plays a key role throughout the development
stage. By attentiveness to the team and individual soldiers,
he can make a significant difference. The leader actions that

38

were discussed earlier for the "storming" stage of development in peacetime apply in combat as well. The major differences are that the focus of the. soldier's needs changes in
combat; the time span for team development is highly constricted; and the increased rate of personnel turnover places
a larger burden on the orientation and reception process as
well as on the fire team, crew, or section leader.
The realities of combat suggest several leader actions that
will assist the leader in developing effective fighting and ·
supporting teams in combat. The easy way out would be to
say that team building cannot be done in the confusion of
combat. The most effective leaders will realize that team building can be, and must be, made to work in any environment
if the leader follows some basic principles.

Know the Job. The primary concern of most soldiers is

DEMONSTRATED

the leader's competence-"Does he know what he is doing?" COMPETENCE
It is the responsibility of the leader to· know the tasks INSPIRES
required of his level of rank and experience as well as the CONFIDENCE
tasks of his subordinates. When he can demonstrate such
competence in combat, he gains the confidence and respect
of his soldiers. ·

Know the Soldiers. As the leader gets to know the soldiers, he determines their reliability. He discovers those he
can turn to in a crisis. He gives them responsibility where
possible to develop them as potential leaders. He identifies
those soldiers who may need more intensive training to
increase their competence and self-confidence. He also
encourages those few soldiers who do not seem to fit in by
pointing out that being effective team members is important
to their survival and to the survival of the unit in critical
war situations.

Develop the Soldier. In combat, the soldier's job expectations will be strongly influenced by his need to survive. The
leader needs to establish a phased program that gradually
works the soldier into his combat role without endangering
his life or the lives of those around him. On the basis of
his own experience, the leader considers the time it takes to
get used to the combat environment and gives the soldier
time lines within which to develop. He paces the integration
process based on the soldier's progress. It is critical. that
the leader get feedback from soldiers with whom the new
member is placed as well as that he personally observe the

THE SOLDIER
Will BE ACCEPTED
AS HE LEARNS
HIS JOB WELL AND
PROVES TRUSTWORTHY

39

Chapter 3 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

soldier's progress. Continual feedback to the soldier from
both the leader and the team members is also essential during this process to ensure orderly integration into the team.
Guiding this progress is the responsibility of the leader.

Structure the Situation for the Soldier. When in contact
with the enemy, the soldier's greatest need is the feeling of
structure that his team members and leaders provide. This
group solidarity and coordinated team action are possible
only if the soldier knows where his buddies are, what they
are doing, and what the leader wants each soldier to do.
· The leader structures the s'ituation by ensuring that soldiers are adequately informed. The soldier wants to know
all he can about his situation. As time permits, the leader
needs to tell the soldier as much as he can about the what
and why of his situation to counteract the fear and uncertainty of the unknown. There .will be enough inacc1J.racies
and inadequate information on the battlefield. It is no place
for poor transmission and reception of information because
of lack of aggressiveness in communicating .
. The leader must use every possible means to structure
the situation. He must make his presence known by moving
among his soldiers, issuing verbal instructions, using arm
and hand signals, using flares, or simply standing up and
leading his soldiers when appropriate. Soldiers feel structure
when they know that all share the dangers and burdens
equally. Dangerous jobs must be rotated among all the men.
And it must be evident that leaders share the dangers too.
After any disorganization occurs, no matter how· slight, the
leader must restructure the situation as quickly as possible.
Finally, the leader can structure the situation by realistically minimizing the perceived threat. The soldier must be
calmly and convincingly reminded not to overdramatize critical situations. The leader cultivates calmness in the soldiers
by personal example. He can use existing feelings of pride
in accomplishments under fire to build unit confidence. The
leader and the men must be constantly aware that suppressing fearful behavior during combat is critical because it can
spread from soldier to soldier and paralyze an entire unit.

40

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - C h a p t e r 3.

Charles B. MacDonald tells the story of Lieutenant Jam.es
V. Christy whose decisive action regained his soldiers' focus
on their mission. Lieutenant Christy found himself in command of an ipfantry platoon reconstituted with support
troops after days of battle. Sergeant Stanislaus Wieszcyk, a
former mess sergeant, was his platoon sergeant.
Supported by two Sherman tanksi Christy's platoon was
making a night move in order to engage the enemy in battle
in the village of Fouhren the next day. The men were tired
and hungry, The casualties taken during the day's fighting
weighed heavily on their minds. Christy knew that his soldiers were uneasy. With battle noises in the distance, the
column led by the two tanks ground to a halt.
Arriving at the head of the column, Christy was told by
the lead tank commander that he could move no further
without infantry out front to protect against antitank
rockets. When the lieutenant ordered Sergeant Wieszcyk to
deploy a squad out front to lead the tanks, the sergeant
told him that the guys wouldn't go, that they had had
enough that day.
·
Although faced with this challenge to his leadership,
Christy realized the importance of moving out. ·MacDonald
writes:
The young lieutenant gulped, but he quickly turned
to the commander of the tank. "How many men do you
· want in front of this tank to mpve it?" The fank commander said one good soldier would do. "You've got
him!" said Christy, "Follow me."
With pounding heart, Lieutenant Christy st~pped out
in front of the Sherman and started walking into the
darkness. He had gone only a short way and the tanks
had scarcely began to rumble forward behind him when
Christy made out a figure on his left. It was Wieszcyk,
"OK, Lieutenant," said Wieszcyk, "You made your
point." Close behind him was the entire First Squad. 5
Lieutenant Christy set the example by his bravery and. by
his insight into his troops. He gave structure to a critical
situation and saved the day for his team.

41

Chapter 3-----------------~~------------

S.UM:MARY
This chapter has described the development stage in
which team members gradually move through a questioning
phase to trust and effective teamwork. During this stage,
the leader must listen, establish clear lines of authority, and
lead in developing soldier and unit goals. Unit training is
the most important asset that the leader has to develop teamwork. Through training he develops the unit into a team,
prepares the team for combat, builds the unit pride necessary for cohesion, and establishes self-evaluation habits.
Finally, the chapter turns to the changes in the development
stage that occur in combat. It discusses the process the
leader uses to guide the new soldier as he becomes a team
member in combat and the importance of the leader provid- ·
ing structure to the combat situation.

42

Sustaining Combat-Ready
Teams
This chapter discusses the leader's responsibility to sustain
team spirit and effectiveness once a cohesive team develops.
It tells what the leader can expect in the sustainment stage

and what actions he can take to sustain the team. It concludes with the process of sustaining teams in combat.

THE SUSTAINMENT STAGE
The sustainment stage is characterized by accomplishing
the mission through teamwork and cohesion. It begins when
soldiers and leaders emerge from the questioning and
challenging stage and begin to work together as a team.
Soldiers now feel more comfortable about themselves and
their leaders. They trust leaders to be fair in assigning work
and in dealing with differences between team members.
During this stage, the team, rather than individuals, accomplishes tasks and missions. The team, thinking, acting, and
working as one, knows the requirements and gets better
results more quickly and efficiently.

43

As soldiers share common goals, interests, and experiences, they feel pride in shared experiences and begin to
develop a sense of comradeship. Comradeship describes the
bonding process necessary for total trust in and acceptance
by fellow team members and the leader. While comradeship
develops slowly, it is necessary for high cohesion and effectiveness. It is enhanced as the team works together and
succeeds in achieving high standards.
Comradeship occurs as team members realize that they
share the same goals and are committed to the mission. It
is important that team members orient on mission accomplishment because comradeship can also form around influences that harm team loyalty. One combat expression of
comradeship is the buddy team. The leader's challenge is to
focus individual soldiers, buddy teams, and fire teams on
total unit teamwork. With this focus, comradeship will be
realized through cooperative accomplishment of team goals.
TEAM
EFFECTIVENESS
CHANGES AS
TEAM COMPOSITION
CHANGES

44

In peacetime and in combat, the team experiences personnel turbulence. With each change, the leader also observes
a change in team effectiveness. For example, when a squad
receives one or more new soldiers, the automatic way it
accomplishes complex team tasks is degraded. The shortcuts
that the team has established by members working together
have to be established with the new soldiers. Soldiers feel
less secure in the effectiveness of the team and focus on
relationships with more established team members rather
than with new soldiers.
Soldiers continually encounter problems that range from
financial hardships to professional differences to severe
family crisis. They are distressed from time to time about
disturbing news from home and frustrated when they cannot
handle things from a distance. Such situations deteriorate
teamwork and move the team back to an earlier stage of
development. The result can be a minor decrease in efficiency
when performing a previously routine task, or an outbreak
of minor petty arguments which keep the team from performing up to an agreed upon standard. The leader must be
aware that this can happen, alert to the signs, and prepared
to smoothly ease the team back to the sustainment stage of
development.

LEADER ACTIONS
·Leadership is the key to sustaining cohesive teamwork.
The leader must understand and respond to problems that
affect quality teamwork over a long period. Certain leader
actions associated with the sustaining process become necessary as well as some unit activities that support the process.

Deal with Change. As the leader responds to situations
that threaten sustained teamwork, he needs to realize that
team growth and stability will be uneven at best. The unit
will reach a peak of teamwork and then seem to slump;
then it will build to a new peak of performance. This natural
process will continue throughout the life of the unit. The
successful leader guides his unit to peak performance when
it faces critical tasks or combat action.
As new soldiers gain knowledge and experience, the need
for leader control decreases. Using team members to establish objectives and procedures bonds members to one another
and to the leader. They become more committed to the team
and its operations, resulting in a more cohesive team.

Reassess Goals and Priorities. A vital part of the. sustaining process occurs when the leader rechecks the progress
of each soldier in satisfying personal and professional goals.
The soldier should now see that his goals and the goals of
other members in the unit are compatible. Team members
now use team expectations and standards as the measurement by which they accept new s.oldiers into the team.
When new members join the team, or a new team leader
is designated, the leader reviews the short-term goals of the
team, the responsibilities and expectations of the team members, and the procedures and rules by which they operate.
Similarly, as the leader is given new taskings, or as situations change, he ensures that each team member underc
stands clearly what must be done, what is expected of him,
and how well he is expected to do it. At the same time, the
leader identifies long-term goals and the time needed for. the
team to perform them to standard. If several things need to
be completed in the same time period, he sets priorities and
allocates time to complete each task. Additionally, the leader
coordinates these plans with his superior to ensure that they
agree with the priorities set by the higher unit.

45

Focus on Teamwork. Sustaining cohesive teams requires

SUCCESS
IN TRAINING
INCREASES TEAM
CONFIDENCE AND
MUTUAL RESPECT

that 'the leader focus continually on teamwork and on those
things which he and his soldiers have in .common, r~thflr
than on their differences. To do this, .the leader must listen
to what the soldier says, how it is said, and what the soldier
does not say. He must continually evaluate the communication channels within the team to ensure that they are open.
Even in a well-run team, soldiers have legitimate concerns,
complaints, safety considerations, and recommendations for
better ways to do things. Listening and then acting to hnprove the situation are powerful means of gaining' trust and
developing cohesion. The good leader is always alert to
suggestions, complaints, and input from soldiers. The attitude that plans and procedures always need to be defended
can separate the leader from the rest of his team and harm
team readiness.
Focus on Training . .As soldiers develop their personal skills
and blend them into team training, they become more and
more proficient as a team. Unit movements and activities
become second· nature, and the danger of boredom arises~
Bo:redom challenges the leader to reinforce the basics while
providing increasingly complex and demanding training.
Realistic training can be conducted as the leader analyzes
the risks involved and integrates safety considerations into
the training scenario. The leader needs· imagination and
innovation, particularly in garrison situations, where the
inevitable details and duties can undermine the morale of a
high-performing unit.
Besides relieving boredom and developing teamwork, demanding team training enables soldiers an'd leaders to feel
more competent to do their job in combat. This competence
increases mutual respect among all team members. As the
leader shows his ability to use his team effectively in realistic training or in combat, soldiers and leaders become one
in accomplishing team missions.
.·

Focus on Maintaining. While maintenance of personal and
organizational equipment seems far afield to soldier team
development, nothing could be further from the truth. It is
essential to sustaining the fighting spirit of combat-ready
teams. In such teams, soldiers develop special relationships
with· their weapons and equipment. At times they even give
them names.

46'

----~------------------~------~Chapter 4

The leader should develop good maintenance habits as
part of the unit training routine. The loss of firepower because of dirty weapons or the loss of mobility· because of
vehicle failure can seriously demoralize a tightly-knit team.
If the unit goes into combat, there will be no time to stand
down for maintenance. It will have to be done as routinely
as other critical tasks necessary for day-to-day survival.
Properly accomplished, maintenance builds confidence of
s.oldiers in their equipment, thus enhancing teamwork.· ·

Ensure Timely Supply. The leader must also do all in
his power to ensure timely delivery of supplies to his team.
If soldiers expect resupply of critical items such as ammunition
or food at a certain time, delay can cause serious repercussions. The leader who ensures timely resupply of his team,
or who takes time to explain the problem if resupply is
delayed, develops the trust of his soldiers in his leadership
and in the units responsible for resupply. This also reduces
the fear of isolation that soldiers might feel.
Respond to Soldier Concerns. To sustain his team, the
leader must demonstrate caring leadership through his entire
time in the unit. Significant to caring leadership is the way
the leader responds to the legitimate concerns of his soldier.
One only has to assess the impact of an unexpected financial hardship, a troubled relationship with a loved one, or
an illness or a death in his own family to understand how
another soldier might feel in such a case. If the leader is
insensitive to crisis events in the soldier's life, or takes the
stance that the immediate Army "necessity" is more important than the soldier's concern, he can harm the soldier's
morale and damage unit teamwork. If military necessity
does dictate some hardship for the soldier, the leader first
needs to show an understanding attitude and then commuhi"
cate precisely why the soldier cannot be allowed to do all
that he might want to do to alleviate his personal concern.

LEADERS MUST
BE SENSITIVE
TO SOLDIERS'
PROBLEMS

UNIT ACTIVITIES
Unit activities are events that involve all the soldiers
and, in most cases, their families. When challenging and
positive, they are vital to sustaining cohesive teams by encouraging mutual acceptance. They can take place during
duty or nonduty hours. In the company, their purpose is to
develop relationships among the participants. Regardless of
47

size, unit activities provide a focus around which members
come together and create an atmosphere for emerging relationships and unit cohesion.
Care must be taken, however, 'to avoid overemphasizing
unit activities. Overemphasis can be damaging if it takes
the focus of the unit away from mission accomplishment.
When done successfully, military ceremonies, sports activities,
social activities, and spiritual activities enhance pride and
spirit in the unit.
,

Military Ceremonies. Participation in military ceremonies,
such as retreat formations, parades, and battalion and company awards ceremonies, fosters pride and spirit in the unit
and in the Army. Such unit spirit is essential in building
cohesive teamwork. Likewise, when a death occurs in the
unit, it is equally important to give soldiers ah opportunity
to express their feelings at a memorial ceremony or funeral.
Such ceremonies help unit members deal with their feelings
and contribute significantly to unit cohesion. This is especially important in combat. Such unit spirit is essential in
building cohesive teamwork.
Recognizing soldiers and their families during unit for·
mations provides formal and public recognition of their
valued membership in the unit. For example, a new soldier,
along with his family if appropriate, can be recognized as a
new team member during such a ceremony. Departing team
members and their families can also be recognized for their
contribution to the unit. Such ceremonies show all soldiers
that the unit appreciates a job well done.
The unit formation also provides the opportunity to reinforce the history of the unit and the Army. A short reading
from the unit's history, or the soldier's creed, might be used
to instill pride in the unit and its heritage.

Sports Activities. A unit sports program can give all the
soldiers a sense of membership in the unit. While only a
few soldiers can actively participate in sports teams, the
excitement and pride in competition and the prestige of a
winning team can be shared by all the soldiers. Soldiers
begin to refer to the company team as "our" softball, volleyball, or touch football team. When they ·do so, they identify
with their unit. These activities should be organized at company level to reinforce cohesion and a sense of identity

48

Chapter 4

among the smaller teams that make up the company. Soldiers recall and talk about highlights of competition:, reinforcing mutual feelings and building cohesion. Participation
in several sports should produce enough winners to avoid a
loser image that could be harmful.
Social Activities. The variety of social activities is limited
only by time, imagination of the planner, and good taste.
The unit party, at any level and in any appropriate form,
provides a relaxed atmosphere for soldiers to develop positive
relationships among themselves and with their leaders. It
also provides an opportunity for fp.milies to meet families
and enhances family belonging to and involvement in the
unit.
Spiritual Activities. Encouraging soldiers to develop their
spiritual lives is another way in which the lead.er can
influence the cohesion of his unit. Because of our rich
American religious heritage, soldiers have many and varied
religious backgrounds. Each faith provides for its member
soldier the strength to cope with difficult situations in combat; Through encouraging his soldiers to practice and develop their faith, the leader shows another facet of his.,c;:qncern for their well-being. The unit chaplain can assist in
answering any question the leader may have in this area.
The Unit Ministry Team provides religious services, rites,
and activities for unit members and is a valuable resource
for all leaders.

The soldier's heal(t,
the soldier's spirit,
the soldier's soul
are everything.
Unless a soldier's
soul sustains him,
he cannot be relied
on and will fail
himself and his
commander, and his
country in the end.
George C. Marshall

TEAM SUSTAINMENT IN COMBAT
Keeping unit spirit and teamwork at a high level during
combat operations depends in part on the tide of battle, but
it also requires work on the part of the leader and the team.
Combat affects soldiers as ·individuals and the unit as a
team. It is critical that the leader overcome conditions that
deteriorate' teamwork and, consequently, combat effectiveness.

DEAL WITH THE SITUATION
Conditions in combat exert pressure on the leader's efforts
to sustain his team. The leader must know how to deal with
each situation if his team is to successfully accomplish com~
bat operations. Conditions that undermine teamwork are• Continuous operati,ons.
• Boredom.
•Rumors.
• Enemy actions.
• Casualties.

49

Continuous Operations. The continuous operations anticipated on the. modern battlefield cause effects such as
decreased vigilance, reduced attention, slowed perception,
inability to concentrate, mood changes, communication difficulties, and inability to accomplish manual tasks. Over time,
these effects can lead to apathy in both leaders and their
soldiers. If left unchecked, they can deteriorate the most cohesive teams and damage their will to fight.
Proper sleep and rest are necessary to keep soldiers functioning at their best. The leader needs to develop sleep discipline routines for his soldiers and particularly for himself.
His soldiers cannot operate efficiently without proper sleep
and he needs to be fresh to make necessary decisions. The
battlefield is no place for the leader who stays awake for
long periods because he feels that the· unit cannot operate
without him. (FM 22-9 provides valuable information to
assist the leader during continuous operations,)

Enemy Actions. The movement of the enemy and the
necessary countermoves of the friendly force can be confusing and frightening. The appearance of the enemy in
force, or fire from an enemy that cannot be seen, can affect
the soldier's performance as a team member. Discussion of
real situations, along with battle drills practiced until they
are automatic, can prepare the soldier for quick reaction to
the situations that he will face. The more he knows about
what to expect and how to react, the more confident he will
be in the moment of crisis.
During breaks in combat, the team should spend time
discussing recent combat actions, their performance, and
ways they can improve. These after action reviews will increase the confidence of the soldier and help him develop a
sense of responsibility for his own performance. They will
also help eliminate the feeling that he is alone and allow
him to vent possible feelings of anger, fear, and despair.

Casualties. Casualties create personnel turbulence and have
a psychological effect on the soldier. They are a serious
and continuous threat to sustained teamwork and cohesion.
Proper safety precautions can assist in minimizing unnecessary casualties and their psychological impact on the soldier.
But even with sound leadership, and by the leader doing
50

-----------~----------------~--- Chapter4

all that he can do to reduce casualties, the ·team will still
sustain casualties in combat. Soldiers must have no doubt
that if they are injured they will not be deserted because of
hostile fire.
·
Further, when a casualty occurs, the leader must also
counsel the casualty's buddies as promptly as the situation
allows. Talk relieves tension and they may be feeling anger
and fear. It is the leader's task to reassure the remaining
men that their whole supporting unit structure is not collapsing. The quicker the unit can adjust to these casualties,
the less damage to unit teamwork. More experienced soldiers
can be i:Ilvaluable in helping new soldiers to deal with the
injury and death around them and in reassuring them. On
personal level, the Unit Ministry Team, consisting of chaplain and chaplain's assistant, .can assist leaders, soldiers,
and the team in coping with feelings caused by casualties.

a

The loss of a leader because of injury or death will even
more seriously affect teamwork. Soldiers look .to the leader
as a stabilizing force in a chaotic situation. When the leader
is hurt or killed, the spirit and teamwork of the unit can be
severely degraded.
S.L.A. Marshall tells the story of Lieutenant William
McCann. McCann had already served one tour in Vietnam
as an enlisted man and was on his second tour, this time
as a platoon leader in the First Cavalry Division. A very
popular leader, he had "completely won his platoon." 6 His
platoon sergeant said of him, "The man's a charmer. He
wants nothing but the best. So, we're all for the best." 7 He
had a real sense of his men and what they were going
through.
·
After a series of successful operations in central South
Vietnam, McCann's platoon had just finished some mop-up
operations and moved into an area for pickup by helicopter.
Lieutenant McCann sensed a threat to his men when he
noticed signs of possible enemy troops in the vicinity of the
LZ. Followed by several of his soldiers, he entered the elephant grass to confirm his suspicions. He was mortally
wounded by enemy fire. The immediate effect of McCann's
being wounded was stunning. Staff Sergeant Belfield, his
platoon sergeant, stood transfixed. The shock of seeing
McGann on the ground mortally wounded was too much for

51

him. Lieutenant McCann died minutes later as he was being
lifted onto a MEDEVAC helicopter. Mars.hall describes the
feeling of the team:
Behind him he left a sorely stricken outfit. One hour
earlier, as these men had approached the LZ for their
lift-out, they had been buoyant with the knowledge that
they had not only survived but had made a high score
and they had congratulated one another on a job well
done. Now a sense of leaden futility weighed on their
spirits. In some measure they were blaming themselves,
and they felt resentful of a life that must express' its
values in terms of movement, action, and violence. 8
When an event such as this occurs, the remaining leaders
in the unit need to rally the unit and provide continuing
structure and support to the soldiers. When a new leader is
appointed, other leaders need to back and support him. Even
if he has combat experience, he still has to fit into the new
unit. His successful integration requires close supervision by
the next higher leader and an intensive on-the-job training
program that develops his tactical ·and technical competence.
Each new leader has to depend on the soldiers and on other
leaders to ·assist him in adapting his training and peacetime
experience to combat.
BOREDOM
ERODES COMBAT
EFFECTIVENESS

Boredom. Combat activity will vary from periods of intense
and violent conflict to times of boredom. Dealing with boredom is essential for combat effectiveness. In Vietnam some
units spent days in the jungles arid rice paddies without
enemy contact. The only diversion was their constant alertness for booby traps. After a while, in its boredom, the unit
would let its guard down and become careless. The unit then
lacked combat sharpness when attacked, even failing to
detect booby traps. Effective leaders found ways to occupy
their units while they spent those days in the jungle. They
focused on security, resupply, personal hygiene, patrol activities, equipment maintenance, and mission-related training
activities such as cross training and radio procedures. Such
activities helped develop and maintain unit cohesion and
combat effectiveness.
Rumors. Rumors are bits of information that are not based
on definite knowledge. They can spread quickly throughout
the unit, increasing uncertainty and destroying confidence.

52

-----------------------'------'------'-'---'---Chapter 4

To sustain teamwork, the leader must constantly use truth
to deal with rumors and put them to rest. Following are
ways that help control rumors:
• Stress honesty. When soldiers discover that their leaders
have lied to them once, they stop believing. Soldiers must
be absolutely convinced that all information coming from
their leader is true to the· best of his knowledge. Honesty
is a prerequisite for mutual· confidence.
• Inforlli. The leader must start an effective information
program and pass out as much foformation as possible.
Soldiers must be cOnfident that they are getting the whole
story, the good and the bad.
• Identify and counsel those who .spread rumors. The way
rumors are comm_unicated, however, makes 1dentifying the
source extremely difficult. Leaders should be careful to
avoid wrpngly accusing team rriember,s of starting rumors
as this. creates distrust,

DEAL WITH SOLDIER'S FEELINGS·
When a soldier is threatened, he may feel anger, despair,
or fear: When a soldier is angry, the anger may indicate a
high confidence level. In this case, the leader's problem is
how to direct the soldier's anger in the right direction. When
a soldier is apathetic or despairing, it usually indicates he
has an extremely low confidence level. The leader's problem
with the apathetic soldier is how to keep him alive until
the battle is over and he can get appropriate treatment;. If
a soldier is afraid, the fear is neither a good nor a bad
sign in itself. It simply indicates that· the soldier. may, or
may not, take action to eliminate the threat. It may depend
on whether the soldier has learned to deal with fear or how
skillful the leader is in controlling the undesirable effect of .
fear on ·himself and his soldiers.
·
Fear c.an come from many directions in combat. The
sights and sounds of the battlefield frighten many. Others
fear the unexpected or the unknown. Still others are ~fraid
of dying or of being crippled or disfigured for life. And some
fear being a coward or failing as a soldier. Whatever the
source, these fears can immobilize soldiers, destroy a: team's
will tO fight, and even lead to despair and panic.

53

Chapter 4 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

If the leader can reduce fear levels, he can inspire effec"
tive action. In controllin,g fear in combat, the leader must
emphasize that these fears are· very normaL An open discussion o{ fear can best be con<;lucted by either the team leader,
or a combat veteran, who admits to fear in combat. Further,
he can tell how he coped with it and went on to do his jo~
~n spite of it. The unit's chaplain and chaplain's assistant
can assist in this effort.
Finally, leaders must use fear-control techniques. A powerful method for controlling fear in combat is to concentrate
on each step of the task at hand. The soldiers must be
trained to concentrate on specific aspects of the job, not the
danger. A soldier who is concentrating on firing his weapon
and on selecting his next firing position is not concentrating
on fear. Once the soldier takes action to alleviate his situation, his fear usually subsides. Fear controLis a centralJunction of combat leadership.

DEAL WITH PANIC
In. combat, many situations cause despairing behavior in .
individuals. The well-prepared leader can cope with such
behavior as it occurs. A much more difficult and complicated
leadership problem arises, however, when individual despairing behavior leads to group despairing behavior, or
panic. Soldiers in panic have intense fear, are easily spooked,
and tend to flee the battlefield.
Two battlefield conditions that are primary causes· of
panic are• Belief by the group that all escape routes are rapidly closing.
• Group feelings of helplessness and anxiety caused by an
·unclear situation or by what the group perceives as an
immediate threat.
When these conditions exist, a "trigger" incident can cause
soldiers to panic. A trigger incident confirms the belief of
soldiers that the situation is out of control, causing them to
give in to their worst fears and suspicions. Examples of
trigger incidents are a soldier fleeing to the rear, fire coming
from an exposed flank, or a respected leader or soldier being
killed.
Also, combat troops tend to relate all previous and subsequent information to the trigger incident. If the trigger incident was an exceptionally heavy artillery barrage in the
54

~

----~---------------------------Chapter 4

friendly rear area, s.oldiers may interpret the lack of an
ammunition resupply as evidence that all ammunition has
been destroyed. The trigger incident, and other reinforcing
evidence, lead to uncontrollable fear that, in turn, can lead
to hysterical behavior on the part of one or more soldiers.
If a soldier turns and runs, others may follow and the action
may snowball until the entire unit is in flight.
To prevent panic, the leader must focus. on and control
'what the· sold~el\s believe to be true. If soldiers believe that KEEPING
their escape routes are rapidly closing, if they believe that SOLDIERS
uncertain situations lead to uncontrollable events, or if they WELL. INFORMED
HELPS
believe in their most pessimistic appraisals of the situation, PREVENT PANIC
then the seeds of panic are firmly planted. It is what the
soldiers think is true that co.unts, not what is actually true. ·
·Soldiers in ·combat ·are regularly exposed to death and
battle wounds. They are subject to all the fears that lead to.
panic. Experienced soldiers who are well trained, organized,
and led seldom give way to panic because they are confident
in their ability to cope with difficult situations.
The reverse is true for the inexperienced, inadequately
trained, poorly led soldiers. In either case, the leader must
constantly evaluate the confidence level of his team, strive
to increase. soldier confidence, eliminate the conditions that
lead to panic, and decrease troop. despair.
A leader should be on the ale.rt for incidents that soldiers ·
may interpret as ~ritical. When trigger incidents occur, the
leader must follow with prompt and calm action. He can• Keep the soldiers busy with routi.ne tasks that are simple
and repetitive but meaningful. If the troops are concentrating intently on a routine task such as firing their
weapons, they will pay less attention to their own fears.
• Move from position to position, reassuring the soldiers
that the situation is not critical. When the leader does
this, he not only reassures the men but also adds structure
to the situation.
• Slow the soldiers down so that they can act instead· of
react. This is especially i]Jlportant if they are showing early
hysterical behaviors such as extreme agitation or confusion.
• Set a personal example of fearlessness, even though he
feels fear, and insist that all on the leadership team do
the sanie.

55

Chaptet 4 ~-------------------------------

• Explain the reasons for withdrawals and delaying actions.
• Stress the unit's ability, as a unit, to cope with all battlefield situations.
, • Assure the unit. that it is in command of the situation
and not in an inescapable situation.
• Assure the unit· that its •flanks, rear, and supplies are
secure, if this is the case.
If panic develops in spite of all the leader's efforts, he
must take firm and decisive action to stop it as soon as
possible. Remember, panic is contagious! The leader can often
restore unity of action by standing_ with .a few volunteers. in
the path of fleeing soldiers, ordering them to return to th.eir
positions. These volu.nteers must be ready to take firm action,
manhandling or restraining tho.se men who come within
reach, or. threatening· the.· others.· The overriding consideration
is tostop the panic. Once panic is stopped, the leader~ust
immediately restructure the situation and give the panicked
soldiers something constructive to do as part of the larger
unit. The work will distract them from their fears, and the
stability of the unit will restore their confidence.

RESTRUCTURE THE SITUATION
The leader must work constantly to restructure the situation and keep the unit organized, together, and working.
His main concern is that the unit does not disintegrate.
When the unit is disrupted, members are preoccupied with
individual physical survival and the attraction to remain a
member of the team is minimized. Following are actions the
leader can take to help restructure:
• Use the chain of command wherever possible to avoid
conflicting orders and to prevent rumors.
• Manage time efficiently to prevent prolonged waits.
• A void false alarms.
• Train subordinate leaders to take command immediately
in the event of the death or incapacitation of their leader.
• Prevent surprise by stressing security.
• Keep the soldiers informed on all matters, especially on
their own location and that of the enemy.

56

• Never express dissension in the presence of the soldiers.

e Forcefully correct those soldiers who are. increasing fear
by irresponsible talk. A soldier who is inflating the accuracy and lethality of enemy weapons or exaggerating
the strength of the enemy increases soldier despair. He
must be warned about his irresponsible behavior.

SUMMARY
As the unit becomes an effective, combat"ready team, unit
members will take responsibility for sustaining the team. The
leader guides this process and takes necessary action to cement relationships that develop over time. He assists new
members as they integrate into the team and prepares the
team fo receive them. He acts to overcome detrimental effects
of combat, such as conditions that lead to fear and panic,
to ensure the sustainment of high-level team operations.

57

APPENDIX A

Teamwork Assessment
This appendix contains questions for teamwork assessment. If the answer to any of the questions indicates that
your unit needs to develop in a certain area, the question
can be related to pertinent text in Chapters 2 through 4. ·

TEAM FORMATION
KIND OF LEADER
As a leader, are you sensitive to the personal problems
of your soldiers? Do the soldiers feel that you care?
1.

2. Do you know your soldiers? The way the soldier reacts
and thinks? Personal data? Strengths and weaknesses?
Reliability?
3. Are you fair in the assignment and treatment of all soldiers regardless of race, sex, or religious belief?
4. Are your soldiers confident that you know what you are
doing?
5. Do you know enough about the job of your subordinates
to teach and guide them as they develop?

RECEPTION
Does .your soldier reception address the needs of both
single and married soldiers?
1.

2. Are sponsors carefully selected to ensure they are good role
models for new soldiers?
3. Are your soldiers given adequate time to deal with
administrative and personal details involved in moving into
the unit?
4. Are you taking action to make the family feel welcomed
into the unit?

ORIENTATION
Values and Standards
1.

Do you know and live by Army ethical values?

2. Do you know how to communicate appropriate Army and
unit values to the soldier? Do you do it?
3. Do you communicate standards of conduct clearly to the
soldier during orientation?

58

4. Do you recognize and reward soldiers for exemplifying
. unit values and standards?
5. Does your team accept the values and standards of the
unit?
6. Do your team members require acceptance of the unit
values and. standards as a condition for acceptance in the
unit?

Mission and Goals
1. Do you communicate unit mission and goals to your soldiers durii:ig the orientation period?
.

2. Do you spend personal time with each of your soldiers
to tell him what is expected and to find out what he expects?

Standing Operating Procedure
1. Does your unit have a simple, clear SOP that soldiers
are required to read? Do leaders at all levels ensure that
the soldier reads it?

2. Do· you communicate the more informal SOP-the way
the squad, section, and platoon do business?

Unit Heritage
1. Do you utilize unit patches, colors, crests, and mottoes
to develop pride and spirit in the soldier?

2. Do you teach the unique history of the unit as a source
of pride and identification for the soldiers?
3. Are your soldiers required to learn important facts about
unit heritage? Are questions about these subjects included
on soldier of the month boards, promotion boards, guard
mounts, and other prominent places?
4. Do your soldiers talk with pride about successful accomplishments of the recent past?

TEAM FORMATION IN COMBAT
1. Do you take care in combat to reassure the new soldier
and receive him as a welcome addition to the unit?

2. Are you and. your team members prepared to orient the
soldier in unit combat procedures and guidance for survival?
3. Does your unit have a working buddy system to assist
the new soldier as he adjusts to the uncertainties of combat?

59.

TEAM DEVELOPMENT
LEADER ACTIONS
1. Are your soldiers allowed time to get their personal
affairs and their families settled before they are put to work?
2. Do you use the new soldier in productive activity as
soon as he finishes his initial inprocessing and orientation?
3.

Do you take time to listen to your soldiers?

4. Do you retain control and respect of your soldiers as
you allow them to express their questions and concerns?

5. Do team members know who is next in line for leadership in case of leader casualties?
6. Are all team members involved in the unit goal-setting
process?
·
7. Do you periodically spend time with each soldier to help
clarify his expectations of you and the team and to help
him understand your expectations of him?
·

8;

Do soldiers trust one another, you, and other leaders?

9. Do your policies and practices communicate trust to the
soldier?
10.

Do your actions and words encourage acceptance?

11. Do you make every attempt to protect your unit from
overtasking, or taskings beyond available resources?
12. Are you concerned about each soldier's development so
that the soldier is best equipped to become a productive
team member?

TRAINING
1. Does unit training challenge the soldier? Is he actively
involved, .or does he spend time sitting aroundand waiting?
2.

Do you productively use lulls in the training scenario?

3. What benefits do your soldiers feel they get from
training experiences?
4. When you give missions or tasks, are they unit
missions? Does the squad do things together or are they
fragmented to do different tasks?

. 5. Do you reward your unit for team accomplishments in
training?

60

-------------------------'-------~~ Appendi~ A

6.

Does your unit keep training detractors to aminimum?

7.· When team members talk about a training experience,
do they view. it as "we" and "our" rather than ''l" and
"my"?
8. Do you continually upgrade the training situation to
ensure that the soldier is. challEmged?
9. Do you emphasize safety awareness for all training
activities? .
·
10. Are you present for traiping events?
11. ·Does your unit realistically train for combat?

12. Do you train your soldiers to cope· with fear through
training? Is their confidence stronger as a result of training
ev.~nts?

13. Do you give leadership responsibilities to soldiers during
training?
14. Does your· unit· utilize and reinforce the chain of command in all training.exercises? Are NCOs respected as competent leaders by team members?
.
·
· ·

15. Do your soldiers develop pride in their tn1ining accomplishments?
16. Do you reward ypur soldiers for unit ~ccomplishment
in training events?
17. Do your soldiers criticize themselves and seek better
ways of doing things?
.·

DEVELOPMENT IN COMBAT
1. Do you demonstrate competence that wins the respect of
your soldiers?

2. ·Do you know your soldiers? Do you continuously assess
them for leadership potential?
3. Do you have a plan to pace the new soldier's integration
into combat. activity?
4. Are your soldiers prepared to receive and assist new soldiers who enter the unit?
5. Do you do things in combat to .ensure that the team retains its focus as a team?
61

6.

Do you keep the soldiers informed?

7. Do you make your presence known to your soldiers
during combat?
8. Do your soldiers have a realistic picture of the enemy,
or do they tend to overestimate his capability?

TEAM SUSTAINMENT
LEADER ACTIONS
1. Are you aware of the effects of change on teamwork?
Do you actively work to minimize its impact?
2. Do you periodically check on the progress of each soldier
to ensure that personal goals and team goals are compatible?
3. Do your team members use team expectations and standards as a measurement by which they accept new soldiers
into the team?
4. Do your team members share a commitment to the team
mission?
5. Do you reassess team goals often to ensure timely adjustment to the changing situation of combat?
6. Do you listen for suggestions, concerns, or complaints of
soldiers that can assist in maintaining a high level of team
work?
7. Do you assess your training program to challenge your
soldiers and minimize boredom?
8. Is maintenance a day-to-day routine with your soldiers?
Do they see its vafoe?
9. Are you continually sensitive to soldiers' personal
concerns?
UNIT ACTIVITIES
1. Does your unit plan and utilize activities that build unit
spirit and identity?
2. Do you use military ceremonies to build and reinforce
soldier spirit, identification, and pride?
3. Do your sports teams reinforce the identity and team·
work of the unit? Do your soldiers view their unit teams as
"our team"?

62

4. Does your unit sponsor social events for your soldiers
and their families that build identification of the soldier and
his family with the unit?
5. Do you encourage the spiritual development of your soldiers and their families?

SUSTAINMENT IN COMBAT
1. Do your soldiers observe and learn from actual expenences in combat?
2. Does your unit have a realistic plan for sleep discipline
in continuous combat operations?
R Are your soldiers prepared to react to enemy movement
in conjunction with other team members?
4. Do your soldiers spend time talking about immediately
prior combat action in order to adjust to and overcome
enemy actions?
5. Do team members know what to do in case of a casualty?

for

6. Are you prepared
team member reactions to injury
or death of a team member?
7. Are you prepared to counteract boredom during lulls in
combat activity?
·
8.

Are your soldiers aware of stress-reduction techniques?

9.

Do you take decisive steps to deal with rumors?

10. Do you discuss aspects of combat, such as fear and
panic, with your soldiers?
11. Are your soldiers prepared to deal with fear as a normal
reaction to the dangers of combat?
12.. Are you alert to critical incidents that might trigger
panic among your soldiers?
13. Do you take decisive action to prevent or to cope with
despair and panic among your soldiers?
14. Are you alert to disruptions in your unit that might
cause teamwork· to suffer? Do you take decisive action to
restructure the unit situation?

63

APPENDIX B

A Unit of Excellence
THE SOLDIERS OF THE UNIT
1. A new soldier, of whatever rank, is not just automatically
accepted. Military competence will determine where he stands.

2. The value of the task is in the doing of it.
3. They will attempt to "arrange the environment" before
they do something. They will check out timing and sequencing, again and again.
4. During periods of peak/prolonged stress, unsuspected
talents and abilities will emerge.
5. · They will exhibit almost spontaneous reflex actions"they know they had to do it" -and it worked.

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
SOLDIERS AND THEIR GEAR
1. Maintenance of their gear will be co"mingled with
performance.
'

2.

They will add to and elaborate (ad lib) upon their gear.

3. They will often ascribe human characteristics to their gear.
4. There will be a personal relationship between them and
their equipment.
5. In times of extreme stress/demand, they will call forth
seemingly impossible performance from gear that they
know personally.

THINGS ABOUT THE UNIT ITSELF
1. There will be a great deal of experimentation and rehearsal.

2. There will be considerable shifting around of manual and
mental activities. There will always be a "better way" to do
anything.
3. The unit will exhibit an obvious "rhythm" of operation
characterized by smoothness and everything "clicking." ·
From "An Army of Excellence" by D.M. Malone.

4. The unit will have a clear "on/off' character not readily
discernable to an outside observer.
.
'

.

.

.

.

-

5. There will be a lot of unqbserv~ble activity within the
unit, and externally, only the most prominent actions will
be evident.

RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN THE.·
SOLDIERS AND THE UNIT
1.

Soldiers "live, eat, sleep, breathe, and fight" about the unit .

• measured by unit activities
2. . The passage of time will be
and performance.·
3. Soldiers will talk about and develop desirable states for
the unit.
4. When unit performance declines·, the soldiers will become
greatly agitated and upset.
5. Performance breakthroughs will occur in unplanned ways
and virtually "aJl of a sudden."
6. There will seldom, if ever, be anything in the unit that
the soldiers would call "boredom."
.

!

"

'

.

•

•.

•'

•

7. Social and operational activities will tend to be combined
frequently. . .
'

'

8. Soldiers will show a strong. consciousness of the history,
tradition, and lore of the unit.

"US". ATTITUDE
1. The spirit of "us'' and ·~ 1 we" will transcend feelings for
"me". and "I" to the extent that soldiers may say "we" when
they mean. "I."
·
2. Outside influence will be neither solicited nor welcome.
The unit will tend to be very "private" and protective of
soldiers and prerogatives.
3. There will always be discrepancies between "what the
book says" and what the unit actually does.

65

4. External controls of the unit's operations will be
viewed at best as irrelevant, and at worst, as impediments
of performance.
5. Efforts to dictate particular kinds and qualities of output
will tend to depress motivation and "rhythm."
6. The criteria used by soldiers to seek relief from stress/
pressure will be determined by unit members themselves.
7. A "private" language and set of symbols will arisej argon-jive.
8. Soldiers will develop a set of unit-specific indicators of
performance, expressed in the "private" language.
9. Hours and intensity of work will be determined far
more by the imperatives of unit operations than by higher
headquarters.
10. A set of explicit values about what the unit does and
why will arise.
11. Replies to outsiders about how and why the unit operates as it does will tend to be answered by trite generalities,
or by showing.
If the unit you are observing exhibits a majority of these
characteristics, you may assume that it is a high-performing
unit on that day and in that place.

66

APPENDIX C

One Soldier's View of
His COHORT Unit
PROLOGUE
The people I work with ... we all knew we were going
into a COHORT unit ... and we knew that the people we
would be living, working, and sleeping with during the difficult conditions at basic training were the people we would
be with for the next three years. That started cementing
our relationships right away. BasiC training is stressful, and
because everybody pays for one person's mistake, we got
real close. Very dose. And that carried us through just about
everything we did. We all really wanted to do well and do
well as a unit. We had a lot of heart-to-heart talks at night.
We were always trying to help each other. We were like
family ... a special relationship that I haven't shared with
anyone else.
Because of our experiences in basic training, we expected
that our new leaders would be able to do everything better
than we could. And we were expecting a lot of charisma.

THE MEETING ENGAGEMENT .. '·
CULTURE SHOCK
When we got to Fort Ord, we were very much looking
forward to getting on with the job that we had joined to ,
do. We met our NCOs for the first time. It was one group
meeting another, and it was pretty much "us-them." They
had none of the shared experience we had, and of course
we already knew each other. We knew nothing about ''them."
But we, could look at ourselves, especially within platoons,
and we could tell you everything about each guy ... hometown, mother's maiden name, problems, strengths, and
weaknesses.
,
But these new squad leaders, platoon sergeants, and platoon leaders made us uncomfortable ... because of their
rank. In those days,· we held rank in awe. Now, we understand it. Our unit leaders weren't out of the same mold as

67

our drill sergeants and officers at Fort Benning. They were
much older than we were accustomed to, and less charismatic. We had come from a place with very high standards,
and we pushed ourselves real hard. We wouldn't accept any.thing less than perfection from our leaders.
That may have been unrealistic. No one sat us down and
explained that our leaders were going to be human.
,
At first, they didn't want to relate to us on a soldier-tosoldier basis ... and that's how we were working ... .
Sometimes, we'd catch them in contradictions ... and that
doesn't breed trust. They were little contradictions ... something as small as a standard not being adhered to by
all ... like relaxed standards for officers and NCOs. Or, the
mindless series of changes that seem to be standard in our
Army. It takes twenty changes to get something accomplished. To a young soldier, that kind of contradiction and
indecisiveness translates to incompetence, whether actual or
perceived. They had to keep coming back and talking to
us ... information had to start flowing in both directions.
And here in our unit, the pace of life is much less
hurried, less structured. It was like culture shock when we
got here ... a completely different environment. We were
given very high standards to meet ... barracks maintenance,
personal appearance, decorum ... all these things that help
. build discipline. But that's not what we were looking for ...
not then .... we wanted sincere caring, because that is what
we felt for each other. They only cared about the mission ...
we cared about the mission and each other.
·We wanted to learn a lot, and do a lot. We had a lot of
misperceptions about what our battalion was going to be
like: We ha:d been told a lot of things.· A lot of times, authority figures have to bear the effects of those rumors. We
heard all kinds of things, and the leaders picked up a lot of
the psychological blame and some undeserved mistrust because of that. Plus, they were already outside our group.
The first time it became apparent that some of our
standards and their standards weren't the same was our
first PT run. We ran our· NCOs into the dirt. We thought
that if that was the way it was going to be, it was going
to be easy. At the time we were looking at them and saying

68

---------------------------'---~--Appendix C

to ourselves that the NCOs couldn't do what we were doing.
So, they were losing our respect during the very time they
were trying to build us. Lack of self-confidence causes .lack
of candor.
It wasn't lack of competency ... it was a lack of physical
ability. There's a difference. Their knowledge and skills were
at least as good as ours, if not· superior. In fact they were
miles above us. But, on a physical level, which is the standard we had equated everything to up to that point, we were
stronger. Everyone we had followed up to that point physically did everything we did ... and ·did it better. The first
thing we found when we got here was a flaw. They couldn't
best us physically, and yet they were trying to lead us.

And ''they" also found out. that mass punishment doe.sn't
work on a COHORT unit ... the troops just turn. off to the
leaders.
So in the initial months, the gap between the COHORT
soldiers and the leaders didn't begin to close. It got bigger.
Then our leaders began to challenge us, once they had
found out what our level was. That was the best thing they
could have done. And they got help ... from an unexpected
source.

THINGS GOT WORSE .
BEFORE THEY GOT BETTER .
After we had been here for about six months, thirigs had
changed ... we were no longer two distinct groups .. : our
unit was actually three separate groups ... the COHORT
soldiers, the NCOs and officers, and the newly promoted
corporals selected from our ranks. We were effectively functioning, but as a result of soldiers' pride and the fact that
we are duty bound. We joined the Army realizing that we
have a duty to our country and that everything we do is
mission-oriented. And we try to accomplish every mission,
regardless of the complaining and moaning. But, it still took
a long time for the gap to begin to close.
The newly promoted NCOs had the worst job you could
ever hand to a man in his life. Most did remarkably
well ... the others are coming along. They will all turn out
to be good NCOs. They had it really tough, and that's when·

69

things were really at their worst. We had morale problems,
hut we kept it in the ranks ... we've got our pride. We
wouldn't let our frustration out and· adversely affect our unit.
The gap will never close , .. not because of anything that
has or has not happened. Officers are officers, NCOs are
NCOs, and troops are troops. You can join them all together,
but you can never turn them all into one great big group.

BRIDGING THE GAP
The young corporals ... the ones our leaders had made
from nothing .... were the catalyst to bonding us together. ·
Though they were pretty much just like us, they began to
go out and look for more to know. They went to schools
and started reading on their own. They started asking questions of our leaders and getting together to work with each
other. They were getting a lot of pressure from the ranks
and from above. They were catching it from all sides.
But they weren't going to hand those stripes back. No
way.
From the very start, the new corporals were welcomed
into the NCO fold and treated every bit as an NCO, not an
"acting jack." Steps were .taken to ensure that their role was
separate and well defined. That took some very far sighted
thinking by the old man~
Then there was the competition among themselves ... not
to be a dud, especially as a corporal. They became like a
fraternity and relied on each other. They had the support
and commitment of the senior NCOs too.
They started earning our respect when they knew their
job and ours, too. They began to learn how to lead. Our
senior leaders were teaching them daily how to be leaders
... about leadership characteristics and attributes ... and
they backed the corporals. If we screwed with a corporal,
we got it with both barrels from the senior leaders.
So, our resistance to the young leaders dropped as they
exceeded our standards for competency, applied those coin·
petencies, and began to lead by example. When the corporals
got confidence in themselves, we got confidence in them, too.

70

And today we have shared enough experiences with our
senior leaders ... enough that we have learned their
strengths and weaknesses and can fit them into our group.
Now, we have confidence in them, too. They are. rnore
candid With \1s today. Once our confidence in them developed
as a result of d.ernonstrated competence, candor developed.
If we listened to them, nine out of ten times we come off
looking good. They know the right way to train and do
things.
We discovered that they were competent, and We began
to accept them and to listen to them. In about the eighth
or tenth month, we began to think of them as our leaders,
because they had committed themselves to us.
' .
No, the gap will never close. But it's been bridged;. The
three groups have disappeared. That's why we're as effective
as we are today.

TODAY
Our concern has become "Let's get this thing done and
not get 'anyohe hurt." We won't quit. When everyone' else
depends on each other, performance rises way above what
you thought you could do. Now, we'll do anything for each
other , .. not for God or country ... but for the guys that
we have shared experiences with .. ; troops and leaders alike.
Our leaders have learned to balance m1s·sicm and sold~ers.
Some didn't like it at first. The young NCOs have. helped
cr'eate that because they had a lot in common with the
troops and now they have a lot in common with the senior
leaders. All the leaders understand that if we are ·going to
accomplish our mission, us soldiers have got to be there.
Candor is 100 percent. The young leaders can talk to the
old leaders and be heard. We can be. heard.
The leaders were encircled and accepted into our group.
They've come around to our way of thinking, We're beginning to realize some of the potential in COHORT soldiers.

71

·Notes
Chapter 1.
lJ anice Holt Giles, The Damned Engineers (Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Co., 1970), pp ix-x.
2 Carl von Clausewitz, On War ed. and trans. Michael
Howard and Peter Paret (Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press), p 187.
Chapter 2.
3 8.L.A. Marshall, Men Against Fire (Gloucester, Mass., Peter
Smith, 1978), p 42.
Chapter 3.
4 Marshall, p 127.
5 Charles B. MacDonald, The Battle of the Bulge (London:
Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1948), p 15L · · ·
Chapter 4.
6 8.L.A. Marshall, The Fields of Bamboo (New York: The
Dial Press, 1971), p 217.
7Marshall, p 217.
BMarshall, p 224.

72

Glossary
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS .
attn-attention
COHORT-cohesion for operational readiness and training
co-company
DA-Department of the Army
ed-editor
FM-field manual
HQ-headquarters
JET-initial entry training
LZ-landing zone
MEDEVAC-medical evacuation

NBC-nuclear, biQlogical,
chemical
.,
NCOs-noncommissioned officers,. ·
p-page
PT-physical training
SOP-standing operatl.ng procedure
trans-translator
TRADOC-Training and Doctrine Command
US-United States

73

.References
REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
Required publications are sources that users must read
in order to understand or to comply with this publication.

FIELD MANUAL (FM)
Military Leadership
22-100

RELATED PUBLICATIONS·
Related publications are sources of additional information.
They are not required in order to understand this publication.

FIELD MANUALS (FMs)
Soldier Performance in Continuous Operations
22-9
22-101
Leadership Counseling
Training
25-1
Training in Units
25-3
Management of Stress in Army Operations
26-2
The Army
100-1
SOLDIER TRAINING PUBLICATION (STP)
21-1
Soldier's Manual of Common Tasks

74

Index
Adjustment
of new soldiers, 13, 14

combatting, 46, 52
in units, 28, 46

After action review
on battlefield, 50
as self-evaluation, 37

Buddy team
in combat, 25, 26, 27
and comradeship, 44
as role model; 25, 26

Air-land battlefield
characteristics of, v
and communication, 8, 9
knowledge of, 7
success on, vi
Army values, 4, 5, 6
professional Army ethic, 4, 5
Assessment of teamwork, 8, 50, 58 thru
63

Assistance
by chaplain, 51, 54
by Unit Ministry Team, 51
Authority, lines of, 31
Battle of the Bulge, 22
Battlefield
boredom on, 52
casualties, 50, 51
and continuous operations, 50
dimensions, 23
enemy actions, 50
knowledge of; 7
rumors, 52, 53
BE-KNOW-DO, iv, 1, 2, 9, 12
BE, 2 thru 6
KNOW, 6, 7
DO, 8, 9
Belonging, 13, 14
Boredom
on battlefield, 52

Candor, 5
Caring leadership, 4, 15, 16, 32, 47
Casualties
team, 50, 51
leader, 3, 51, 52
Chain of command
and decision making, 9
in restructuring situation, 57
in soldier reception, 24, 25
and·. training, 33
Challenges .
for soldier, IO, 11
in training, 34, 35, 46
Chaplain assistance
in combatting fear, 54
in coping with feelings, 51
to leaders, '19
Clausewitz, on spirit, 2
Cohesion building
thru unit activities, 4 7, 48, ·49, 52
Cohesive teamwork
thru buddy teams, 27
thru leadership, 45, 46, 47
thru shared goals, 32
thru shared values, 4
thru trqining~ 32, 35
and unit spirit, 48
COHORT unit, 10, 67 thru 71

75

Combat
dimensions of, 23
feelings in, 53, 54
influence on teamwork, 49 thru 57
information flow in, 23
orientation, 24
reception, 24
Combat-ready team, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 18, 33
Commander's intent
and communication, 8, 9
and initiative, 3, 9
Commitment, 6, 1 7, 22, 26
Communication
brief form of, 8, 9
in combat, 36
nonverbal, 8, 9
practice, 8, 36
soldier and leader, 32, 46
verbal, 8
Commander
reception by, 24, 25

Demanding training,. 46
Despair, 53, 54
Development of soldiers
in combat, 39, 40
responsibility for, 29
Development stage, iv, 10, 11, 29 thru 42
Duty, 3, 5
Emotional maturity, 3
Enemy actions, 49, 50
Esprit, 21
Ethical behavior, 7
Families
unit, formation of, 1
Family members
recognizing, 48
and unit activities, 1 7, 48, 49
well-being of, 17

Comradeship, 44

Fear
control techniques, 54
of soldier, 23, 38, 53, 54
training to deal with, 35

Coping with feelings, 51

Feedback, 39, 40

Competence, 6, 7, 35, 39

Confidence
in ability, 3, 6, 16, 50
in equipment, 4 7
in leaders, 3
thru training, 4, 35
Continuous operations, 7, 49, 50
Courage, 6, 35
Criterion
for team acceptance, 19, 20

FM 22-9, 50
FM 22-100, iv, 8
FM 22-101, 16
FM 26-2, 38
FM 100-1, 4
Fighting spirit, 46
Formation stage, iv, 10, 11, 13 thru 27

·Decision making, 9

Goals
reassessing, 45
soldier, 31, 32
unit, 15, 31, 32

Delegation of authority, 5

Group despair, 54

Cross training, 26

76

Honesty
to combat rumors, 53
in combat-ready teams, 5, 18
criterion for acceptance, 19
and integrity, 5

Marshall, George C.
on soldier spirit, 49

IET, 18

Maturity, 3, 4

Initiative, 3, 9, 28

Mentor, 26

Integrity, 4, 5

Military ceremonies, 48

Marshall, S.L.A.
on loss of leader, 51
on reception in combat, 23

Military occupational specialty, 7
Judgment, 3, 27

Mission, 20

Knowledge
of battlefield, 7
common, 18
of ethics, 7
of people, 7
of soldiers, 7, 18, 32

Mission accomplishment
a,nd comradeship, 44
with honor, 7
thru selfless service, 5
soldiers' contribution to, 20
as a team, 43

Leader
casualty, 51, 52
competence, 39
control, 30
couns.eling, 51, 53
example, 12, 20, 25, 40, 56
initiative, 28
knowledge, 39
new, integration of, 52
respect for, 34
role in structuring situation, 40, 41

Moral courage, 6, 35

Leadership
caring, 4, 15, 16, 17, 32, 47
in cohesive teamwork, 45, 46, 47
resistance to, iv, 29, 30
Listening, 8, 25, 30, 46
Loyalty, 3, 4, 26

Motivation, 15
Nonverbal communication, 8, 9
Orientation
in combat, 24, 25
in peacetime, 18, 19
Panic, 54, 55, 56
Perceptions, 17
Personal problems, 15, 44, 47
·Personnel
problems, 16, 47
turbulence, 44
Physical
courage, 6, 35
maturity, 3

of organizational equipment, 3; 46, 47

Potential leaders
identify, 31, 36, 39
train, 57

unit training routine, 4 7

Praise, 15, 33

MacDonald, Charles B., 41
Maintenance

77

Pride
soldier, 7, 10, 19, 33, 35, 36, 37
unit, 22, 33, 36, 37, 48

Social
activities, 49
maturity, 3

Professi«;mal Army ethic, 4, 5

Soldier
adjustment, 13, 14
concerns, 14, 24
differences, 15
feelings, 23, 39, 51, 53, 54
goals, 31, 32
problems, 15, 44, 4 7
values, 5, 6, 18, 19

Punishment, 19, 20
Questioning stage, 2!)
Realistic training, 10, 46
Reception of soldiers
in combat, 24, 25
by commanders, 24, 25
effective, 13, 16, 17
by squad leaders, 25
Resistance to authority, iv, 29, 30
Responsibility, 9, 34, 36
Rewards, 19, 20, 36, 37
Role model
buddy team, 25, 26
·sponsors, 16
Rumors, 49, 52, 53
Safety
in combat, 25
in training, 9, 32, 34
Self-discipline, 3, 19
Selfless service, 3, 5
Shared experiences
with leaders, 20
in teams, 10, 38, 44
thru training, 35
Shared values, 10, 19
Situation
restructuring of, 56, 57
structuring of, 40, 41
Skills, soldier, 7, 27, 38
Sleep disciplhie, 50

78

Spirit
as critical element, 2
fighting, 46
Spiritual
experience, 49
maturity, 3
Sponsors
for new soldiers, 16
Sports activities, 48
Squad leaders
reception by, 25
Standards
of behavior, 19
of unit, 19, 20, 37
Standing operating procedure, 21, 25
"Storming'' stage, 29
Stress, 3, 7, 29, 38
Supply, timely, 4 7
Survival, 25, 39, 56
Sustainment stage, iv, 10, 11, 43 thru 57
Team
acceptance, criterion for, 19, 20, 45
bonding, 12, 29, 38
development
in combat, 37, 38, 39
thru orientation, 20
thru training, 32
goals, 15

Teamwork
assessment, 8
on battlefield, 18
detractors, 44, 49 thru 53.
peaks and slumps, 45
for sustainment, 46
Training, 9
benefits of, 33., 34
challenging, 34, 35
for combat, 34, 35, 36
in communicating, 10
demanding, 46
principles, 32 thru 37
realistic, 34
responsibility in, 9, 34, 36
as a unit, 32 thru 37
Trigger incident, 54, 55, 56
Trust, 5, 10, 14, 18, 29, 30, 43
29lst Engineer Combat Battalion, 1, 22
Unit
accomplishment, pride in, 36
activities, to combat boredom, 52
with f amity, 17
military ceremonies, 48
social, 49

spiritual, 49
sports, 48, 49
training, 34
COHORT, 10, 67 thru 71
of excellence, 8, 64, 65, 66
goals, commitment to, 20, 22
development of, 31, 32
reassessment of, 45
heritage, 21, 22
history, 21, 22
mission, 20
s.tandards, 18, 19, 20
symbols, 21
values, 20

Unit Ministry Team, 49, 51
Values
professional Army ethic, 4, 5, 6
shared, 18, 19
soldier, 5, 6, 18, 19
transmission of, 18 .
Verbal communication, 8
Well-being of soldiers
thru leader concerns, 4
thru reception and orientation, 24;
thru spiritual activities, 49

79

-.......;

I ,

u

FM 22-102
2 MARCH 1987

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

JOHN A. WICKHAM, JR.
General, United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:

R. L. DILWORTH
Brigadier General, United States Army
The Adjutant General

DISTRIBUTION:

Active Army, USAR andARNG. To be distributed in accordance with DA
Form 12-11 A, Requirements for Soldier Team Development (Qty rqr
block no. 3859).

*U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

1987-726~041/41038

