DISTAIBUT•ON RESTRICTION: This publication contains technical or operational information
that la fOI,' official government use only. Distribution is limited to US government agencies.
Requests from outside the US government for release of this publication under the Freedom of
Information Act or the Foreign Military Sales Program must be made to HQ TRADOC. Ft
Monroe, VA 23661-5000.
·

Distribution changed to "Approved for Public Release", 09/13/1994
See memorandum on last two pages of this PDF

Field Manual
22-101

*FM 22-101

Headquarters Department of the Army
Washington, DC, 3 June 1985

LEADERSHIP COUNSELING
Preface
This manual is a companion to FM 22-100. Effective
leadership is the Army's key to success in training and
combat. It is founded upon the traditional principles of
leadership. It fosters in all soldiers the professional Army
ethic and soldierly qualities stated in FM 100-1. Military
counseling is a principal tool of leadership.
The purpose of this manual is to help leaders operating at the working level: companies, troops, batteries,
squadrons, and battalions. Those leaders include sergeants,
warrant officers, lieutenants, captains, and field grade
officers. It is intended to broaden leaders' knowledge
of military counseling. In general, this manual contains
suggestions and guidelines. There is only one absolute
requirement. It is found on page 8.
This manual applies the skills and principles of
military leadership to methods developed from professional
counseling and guidance literature. It provides ways for
dealing with and improving the effectiveness of soldiers
within a unit. It is not intended to make leaders into
professional counselors.
The proponent of this publication is U.S. Army Combined
Arms Center, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas 66027. Submit
changes for improving this publication on DA Form 2028
(Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms)
and forward to Commander, U.S. Army Combined Arms
Center, ATTN: ATZL-SWA-DL, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas
66027.
.. Use of specific gender in this publication is for ease of
reading. Whenever the masculine or feminine gender is used,
either gender is intended.
*This publication supersedes FM 22-101, 28 June 1974.

i

Table of Contents
Preface ....................................................... i
CHAPTER 1. Concept of Leadership
Counseling . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . .. . 1
Counseling and Leadership Principles . . . . . . 2
Counseling and the Leader . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Importance of Praise ....................... 5
Soldier Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Responsibilities for Counseling .............. 7
Summary .................................. 10

CHAPTER 2. Fundamentals of Counseling . . . . . . . 11
Leader Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Sources of Power .......................... 14
Forms of Influence ........................ 16
Approaches to Counseling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Directive ................................. 18
Nondirective .............................. 21
Combined ................................ 25
Basic Skills ............................... 29
Listening and Watching ................... 29
Responding ............................... 32
Guiding ...... : ........................... 33
Summary .................................. 36

CHAPTER 3. Reasons for Counseling ....... ~ . . . . . 37
Reception and Integration ................ 38
Transition Objectives ...................... 39
Orientation ............................... 40
Sponsorship .............................. 41
Performance .............................. 42
Growth and Learning ...................... 42
Evaluation of Actions ..................... 44
Improvement of Performance ............... 44
Personal .................................. 45
Soldier's Problems ......................... 45
Leader's Limitations ....................... 47
Outside Agencies .......................... 4 7

iii

Discipline ............. , ................... 49
Leader Actions ............................ 50
Corrective Measures ....................... 51
Professional Growth and Guidance ....... 52
Professional Development ................. 52
Career Guidance .......................... 52

Summary ........................ ~ ......... 54

CHAPTER 4. Effective Counseling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Counseling Programs ..................... 56
Counseling Process ......................•. 58
Prepare for Counseling .................... 58
Conduct a Counseling Session .............. 61
Follow up on Counseling ................... 63
Reactions and Pitfalls ..................... 65
Soldier Reactions .......................... 65
Counseling Pitfalls : ... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Summary ........:. , . : , ....................... 70

CHAPTER 5. Training Leaders to Cqunsel . . . . . . 71
Need for Training .... , .· ................... 72
Methods for Training .' .................... 73
Role Modeling ........... , . . . . . . ......... 73
Feedback ......... ·........... . .......... 74
Role Playing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. ; ........ 75

APPENDIXES

: . ......... 77
Summary . ·......... ~ ...... · . ~.· ;
A. Counseling and Communicafion .......... 79
B. OER Support Forms ..................... 87

C. Support Agencies ........................ 89
D. Written Records (Examples) .............. 95
E. Counseling Guidelines ................... 99
F. Lesson Outlines for Counseling
Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
G. Role-Playing Exercises . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113

GLOSSARY

127

REFERENCES ........................................... 129
INDEX .................................................... 133
iv

CHAPTER 1

CONTENTS
PAGE
COUNSELING AND LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES .•..•.. 2
COUNSELING AND THE LEADER ••.••..• t •• ••••.••••• 3

Importance of Praise .,............. .. .. ... ....... ... ... 5
Soldier Development ...................,• . , .-. ......... 6
Reaponaibilitiea for Counseling . ~ .... ., .. ~- •. '"' •....... 7
SUMMARY . • .... •;• •........................ ·,. . ~ ...... "~ . 10

1

Chapter 1

The Leader
He was an old-time soldier. Clearly, he was the
best man in the unit. He knew all the weapons and
how to employ them. He was the expert-and we all
knew it. He would usually·· take a few minutes each
day to tell one of us how to do something better; he
gave us a chance to learn from our mistakes. When
we were in the field, he would often tell us about his
combat experiences, usually concentrating on his
favorite topic-the importance of mission and men. It
helped us understand.
Speaking of understanding, he was pretty good at
that, too. We knew he cared about his soldiers. He
listened. He always took the time to talk to each of
us when a problem came up. We always knew 'where
we stood.
And when we did well, he gave us a pat on the
back. It wasn't easy to meet his high standards, but
we knew what they were. He always met them himself.
He was willing to work with us to reach those standards.
We had to have drive to make it, but it sure felt good
to receive an approving nod from him, especially when
we did something that no one else could do, and did
it well.
Was he perfect? No, but it was a pleasure to serve
with him. He was a leader who understood the important
principles of leadership. And he did his best to live
by those principles.

COUNSELING AND LEADERSHIP
PRINCIPLES
Counseling is a basic responsibility of every leader
and an important part of taking care of the troops. A
soldier~to-soldier relationship, it recognizes and encourages
good performance. Its principal objectives are developing
the counselee, improving his well-being, and resolving
his problems. Military experience points out the need
for leaders at all levels in the Army to counsel effectively.
2

------~--------------------Chapter 1

The traditional leadership principles, the basis for
the practice of good leadership, are also necessary for
effective counseling. They were developed by soldiers
who have experienced many of the problems leaders
will face in future years.
These time-tested principles provide all leaders with
a common understanding of those skills necessary to
lead, motivate, and inspire others:

* Know yourself and seek self-improvement.
* Be technically and tactically proficient. . .
* Seek responsibility and take responsibility for
your actions.
* Make sound and timely decisions.
* Set the example.
* Know your soldiers and look out for their wellbeing.
* Keep your soldiers informed.
* Develop a sense of responsibility in your
subordinates.
* Ensure that the task is understood, supervised,
and accomplished.
* Train your soldiers as a team.
* Em.ploy your unit in accordance with its
capabilities.

COUNSELING AND THE LEADER
To be an effective counselor, a leader must understand
his be, know, and do attributes. FM 22-100 describes
these attribut~s in detail. Briefly, what a leader must
be is described by the professional Army ethic and
professional character traits. What he must know includes
technical and tactical information, people, and the situation. What he must do is provide leadership that directs,
implements, and motivates.
3

Chapter 1

A leader's personal beliefs, technical know-how, and
motives are important. To be respected and believed by
his soldiers, he must have a sound professional foundation.
His strengths and weaknesses as well as his sincerity
will be quickly sensed; soldiers know if a leader cares
and is concerned for their well-being.
The leader's character and competence are demonstrated to others by his conduct in day-to-day activities.
His personal example sets the standards. Therefore, a
leader should meet or exceed the standards of conduct
and performance expected of subordinates. Advice and
guidance offered in counseling will not be followed if
the leader himself does not meet the required standards.
Counseling is valuable to the leader in a number of
ways. It can clear up misunderstandings. It can save
time by teaching soldiers to solve their own problems.
It can also help to improve an individual's motivation
and to develop teamwork. Counseling provides leaders
the opportunity to talk with subordinates and to learn
more about their concerns and the problems they face
in the unit. Finally, counseling can help keep good
soldiers in the Army.
Counseling is inherent in leadership-at any time,
in any environment. Counseling responsibilities ·range
from holding scheduled, structured counseling sessioqs
to reacting to problem situations as they occurJ>r' gi,ving
on~the-spot guidance and prais.e. Every day the ··smallunit leaderis faced with many different situatfons w:hete
timely guidanc:e. may, help subordinates to solve th.eir
problems, and to perform up to their capacity. It need
not take an.: hour;
two to three minutes of reinforcement
'.
for a job·w~llqoneis.meaningful to a soldier: Sometimes
the leader· in.Itilites· counseling to discuss a soldier's
gffectiven~ss·~· discipline, appearance, or some. other
.• m~tter the leader has noticeg. At other times; the soldier
. brh1gs his problem to the leader. Problems· 'may range
·from dislike of the job to emotional or financial trouble.
,·WJ:iatever the situation, leaders who care take the .ti~e
tO counsel, and leaders who care take the time to praise.
;

4

-'

'

'

:

-

~ ,•

:/ .

'

'

'

'

:_·

:

'.

IMPORTANCE OF PRAISE
Successful leaders use praise effectively. Identifying
shortcomings and then telling soldiers what must be
improved are a leader's responsibility. Praising soldiers
for their improvement and proper performance is even
more important. Sincere and honest praise lets soldiers
know that their leader appreciates their efforts.
Praising subordinates is a simple act that takes little
time but will provide many benefits. With a few positive,
encouraging words and a pat on the back, the leader
can recognize and reinforce desired behavior and performance. A soldier who feels that his best efforts are
valued by his leader is likely to continue in those efforts.
It is important that the soldier know he is viewed
as a valuable member of the unit. With praise, leaders
can create and reinforce a positive self-image in their
soldiers, making them feel like winners. This is most
desirable in confusing or unclear situations where the
soldier is trying to do the right thing but is uncertain

LEADERS
WHO CARE
TAKE THE TIME
TO COUNSEL

5

Chapter 1

of his actual performance. For example, troops in initial
entry training are uncertain of themselves, but they feel
a sense of pride when praised by their leaders for
improved performance. Soldiers in combat also need a
few words of praise to let them know they have done
the right thing in a difficult· situation. Some soldiers
are assigned necessary but boring and unchallenging
tasks. They, too, must be praised for their contributions
to the overall success of the unit.
Praise should be a part of every leader's normal
day-to-day leadership action. Its contribution to soldier
development cannot be overstated.

SOLDIER DEVELOPMENT
In peacetime, all leaders are responsible for developing
and preparing subordinates to assume higher positions
in wartime. Counseling is one means of developing
subordinates. A good leader counsels subordinates to• Praise and reward good performance.
• Develop teamwork.
• Inform soldiers on how well or how poorly they are
performing.
• Assist soldiers to reach· required standards.
• Cause soldiers to set personal ·and professional goals.
• Help soldiers resolve personal problems.
Such actions demonstrate that a leader cares about the
individual soldier.
Firm and caring leadership helps create a climate
in which soldiers are motivated and are enthusiastic
and willing to perform their tasks. American soldiers
have always responded well to a leader who listens to
their concerns, provides advice and assistance, and deals
with them fairly and honestly, even though, at the same
time, he insists on high standards. This positive climate
is developed through sincere and continuous effort over
time, not just through scheduled counseling to meet a
requirement.
6

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter 1

The leader's efforts to develop soldiers should accomplish four objectives:
• Cause the soldier to recognize strengths or shortcomings
and define any problems. This calls for patience, sincere
interest, and clear thinking.
• Have the soldier determine possible courses of action
based on facts, and then cause him to select one. This
requires skill, knowledge, and restraint.
• Cause the soldier to actually take the appropriate
action. This will depend on the soldier's commitment
to his decision.
• Have the soldier assume full responsibility for his
decisions and actions. This can be met only if the first
three objectives are accomplished.
In any counseling effort, the leader must show that
he understands and accepts how the subordinate feels
and acts. He needs to imagine himself in the soldier's
position with the soldier's experience. He should try to
see things the way the soldier does. This does not mean
that the leader must agree with the subordinate or
condone all his actions, but he should try to understand
how the soldier feels. The leader can then ask questions
in a meaningful way. Accepting means enabling subordinates to express their true feelings. A soldier's feelings
are real. To bluntly tell someone his feelings are all
wrong is to · show a nonaccepting attitude-and the
chance to assist may be lost. On the other hand, effective
counseling can free a soldier's mind from pressures that
are harmful both to the individual and to the unit.

RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COUNSELING
Counseling is a fundamental responsibility of every
leader. Leaders at all levels have a responsibility to
assist and develop subordinates. All leaders must be
coaches, trainers, and teachers. If leaders do not counsel
their soldiers, they are not doing what the Army demands.
If a leader fails to counsel, he has failed in. a major
responsibility and can expect to be held accountable.
When .evaluating the performance of subordinate leaders,
7

Chapter 1

a leader must consider how often and how well the
junior leader counsels his subordinates. Soldiers expect
to be told how they are performing and have a right
to seek assistance and guidance from their leaders.
In general, leaders must coach and guide their
immediate subordinates. Battalion commanders counsel
company commanders who in turn counsel their first
sergeants and platoon leaders. Such a process enables
soldiers to learn from the experience and knowledge of
their leaders. These one-on-one relationships foster
individual growth and improved unit performance.
IT IS AN ABSOLUTE REQUIREMENT THAT LEADERS
REGULARLY COUNSEL THEIR SOLDIERS.
THE LEADER WHO NEGLECTS TO COUNSEL HIS SUBORDINATES IS NEGLIGENT IN HIS PERFORMANCE OF DUTY.

*

DEVElJ)gD (};:,
SENSE @li5
RESPONSIBiUTW

IN YOUfll
SUBORDINAT[g$

8

How frequently a leader counsels or becomes involved
in referring soldiers to seniors in the chain of command
or to agencies outside the unit is determined by rank,
leadership position, experience, and skill. For example,
a company commander may need to counsel his first
sergeant quarterly and a newly commissioned platoon
leader every other week. The basic requirements for
leadership counseling at different levels of a unit are
described below.
Those NCOs with their soldiers daily, mostly staff
sergeants and sergeants, must• Prepare, conduct, and follow up counseling sessions.
• Praise, coach, and constructively critique subordinates
during everyday contacts and in scheduled sessions.
• Identify subordinates who need personal or performance
counseling.
• Know their own capabilities and limitations.
• Become familiar with various referral agencies and
follow unit policies for using them.
• Keep required counseling records.
• Keep the chain of command informed.

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter 1

Senior NCOs have the same basic responsibilities
and, in addition, must• Praise and recognize subordinates' performance.
• Train and develop subordinate leaders to become
capable counselors.
• Ensure junior NCOs are counseling effectively and
as required.
• Handle situations referred to them by subordinate
leaders.
Junior officers, in addition to the counseling requirements assigned to NCOs, must• Praise and recognize subordinates' performance.
• Handle situations referred to them by their senior NCOs.
• Develop senior NCOs to become better counselors.
• Counsel subordinate leaders.
Unit commanders must• Ensure the unit has an effective counseling program.
• Develop a training program to improve the counseling
skills of NCOs and officers.
• Handle counseling problems referred through the chain
of command.
• Establish a policy for deciding when outside help is
needed and for contacting a referral agen~y.
• Counsel subordinate leaders under their direct control.
Sometimes the leader may be responsible for writing
down what was said during counseling. In some units,
a report, r~cord, or memorandum for record is required.
The leader must tell the counselee if this is the case.
A record is advisable in all counseling cases, however,
because it provides a useful plan of action for the
counselee, an unarguable journal of promises made during
counseling, and, finally, a useful log of background
information for the leader should some official action
become necessary. A skilled leader uses this written plan
as a positive force for change rather than as a threat
to the counselee.
9

Chapter 1

The counselor's responsibility is not over when the
subordinate leaves the office. It is very important that
the leader take the necessary follow-up action, which
includes continually evaluating performance against
established standards. This ensures that the objective
has been accomplished, the . subordin~te has corrected
any deficiencies, and the soldier is attempting to improve
his performance. Improvement should be recognized
through the use of praise, rewards, performance counseling, and other suitable methods. If there is no
improvement, the situation should be re-examined to
determine why. Further leader actions, such as referral
to another counselor, disciplinary measures, or ;r~assignment, may· be in order. · ·
·

SUMMARY

This chapter has presented the principles of l~aclership
and has explained that leaders at all levels must understand and apply these principles in. order to be: effective
counselors. Following are s01ne key. points to :rem~mber.
Counseling· ·
• Is the responsibility of leaders at all levels.
• Is an important part of taking care of the troops.
• Ranges from brief words of praise or timely bits of
guidance to \engthy and structured sessions.·
• Can show soldiers that their leader really cares.
• Can result in both individual and teamwork development.
• Can result in retaining good soldiers in the Army.

10

CHAPTER 2

Fundamentals
of Counseling

CONTENTS
PAGE
LEADER ACTIONS . . . • . • . . . . • • . . . . . . . • • . • . • . . • • • . • • . . 12
Sources of Power . . . • • • . . . . • . . . • . . . • . . . . . . • . . • . . . . • 14
Forms of Influence • . • • • . . . . . . . . .• • • • • . • • • . . • . . . . • . • . 16
APPROACHES TO COUNSELING ............ ..,,,,..... 17
Directive . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • • • . . • . • • . . . • . . . . . . .•. . • . . 18
Nondirective .•.•.................•..•••.•..•••...•• • 21
Combined • • . . . • • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 25
BASIC SKILLS •••.••..••...••..•• ·:· ..••••..•. ,;, . ~. . • . . • 29
Uatening and Watching .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. . .. ..... • .. 29
Reaponding .•...•.....•..•.....•...........•. • • • . . . • 32
Guiding .......•................•.•...•..•.• ~ . . . • . • • • 33
SUMMARY ••..• .- • ...•.....•..•....•.•.••••...•.••••... 36

11

Chapter 2

Experience
First Sergeant Atwell thought about the two newly
promoted sergeants who had just joined the unit. They
looked sharp and appeared to know their stuff, but
how much did they know about leading others? One .
was a real hard-charger who reminded Sergeant Atwell
of himself when he first earned sergeant's stripes. Back
then he thought counseling was just a chewing out.
First Sergeant Atwell was glad that his leaders had
taught him otherwise.
It took awhile to learn that different soldiers had
to be dealt with differently. Sure, the standard was
the same for everyone, but the approaches and techniques
to get everyone to meet it were usually different. For
some it was a pat on the back; for others it was firm
guidance. Helping meant asking the right questions
· and paying attention to the answers. Listening was
harder than giving advice.
It was going to take some time and a deliberate
development program to improve the new sergeants'
counseling skills. If the two young leaders were going
to be able to motivate their soldiers, they would have
to be good at coaching, helping, and influencing. They
might already be pretty good, but they could always
work to get better-especially when it was part of
taking care of the troops.

LEADER ACTIONS
Counseling requires that a leader's actions demonstrate
knowledge, understanding, judgment, and ability. It
involves learning and applying techniques for developing
more effective counseling skills.
Of· a leader's traits or characteristics promoting
effective counseling, a caring attitude is the most
important. The leader must develop an attitude. of sincere
concern for the soldier. Moreover, the leader;s conduct
must be consistent with that attitude if he is to be an
effective counselor. He must apply various techniques
12

and develop skills which show an attitude of sincere
concern. Leaders must not just say they are concerned;
they must do things to show concern for their soldiers'
well-being.
To be effective counselors, leaders must set a proper
example. They must be ethical in all personal and professional actions. They must know their own duties, their
subordinates' job requirements, and their soldiers'
capabilities and limitations. They must understand what
methods of counseling they are most comfortable with.
They must also know their limitations, referring soldiers
to agencies when the need is there. Above all, they must
demonstrate the standards of personal conduct and duty
performance expected of their soldiers.

*

SET THE
EXAMPLE

In developing proper attitude and behavior, the leader
should be aware of the characteristic aspects of effective
counseling. These include:
• Flexibility-Fitting the counseling style to the unique
character of each soldier and to the relationship desired.
• Respect-Respecting soldiers as unique, complex individuals with their own sets of values, beliefs, and attitudes.
• Communication-Establishing open, two-way communication with soldiers, using both spoken language and
nonverbal actions, gestures, and body language. Effective
counselors listen more than they speak.
• Support-Supporting and encouraging soldiers through
actions and interest while guiding them through their
problems.
• Motivation-Getting every soldier to actively participate
in counseling and teaching subordinates the value of
counseling. Soldiers will respond differently. Those who
need and want counseling are more likely to profit from
it, but the leader's concern must extend to those who
::::..eed, but do not want counseling.
• Purpose-Seeking to develop responsible and self-reliant
soldiers who can solve their own problems.
J.8

Chapter 2

A leader must be aware that much of the information
a soldier gives during a counseling session .is given in
confidence. As a rule, this information should not\ be
passed on without the soldier's consent. This may be
overridden, however, by the leader's responsibility to keep
the chain of command informed. It may be necessary
to pass on certain information once a soldier has been
referred to an agency for assistance. Also, every soldier
is responsible for reporting information concerning a
criminal act to the proper authorities. Therefore, the
counselor must be sure the soldier knows the limitations
on confidentiality before a counseling session begins.
This openness will help establish and maintain the trust
that should exist during a counseling session.

SOURCES OF POWER
Power is the ability, either physical, mental, or moral,
to have positive control over the actions of others.
Interactions or exchanges that occur between unit
members and their leader shape the soldiers' perceptions
of the leader's ability. These perceptions determine the
amount of power the leader has over them.
Legitimate power is based on the soldiers' perceptions
that the leader's rank or position automatically gives
him certain rights and authority. This power is effective
as long as soldiers accept the organizational structure,
regulations, and. policies as legitimate.
Reward power is based on the percepti'i;>n:·that the
. •leader·. controls rewards that sol~~ei:s· v·allie'~~:rid belh~ve
· ·•. will b~ .given for satisfactQry ·performance~ A problem
is .that soldiers may perform at a rni:nimum acceptable
level'" to get a reward. ,Jf a leader relies ·entirely .on
reward. p6wer;~ his ability may be greatly reduced in
difficu}t situ~tions. Ill, combat, soldiers will be faced with
many hardships,_ ;µid the leader will not be able to provide
the rewards· solCiiets have become accustomed to.
·
::.~ .

•,

14

Coercive power is based upc;m the perception that the
can and will punish soldiers who do not obey.
'Coercive pqwer may have sho#-term benefits but. will
~~ader

produce fear and resentment if overused. Both reward
and coercive powers depend on the leader's ability to
know how soldiers perform all the time.
Referent power is based on soldiers identifying with
their leader. Soldiers are attracted to the leader and
want to be like him. Referent power relies on soldiers'
positive association with the example set by the
leader's performance. It is independent of rewards and
punishments.
Expert power is based on the soldiers' perception that
the leader has special knowledge, skills, or needed
information that relates to the task to be performed.
Soldiers respect and obey a leader who is competent in
his duties. Leaders who can do what is expected of their
subordinates and do it well have expert power.
Soldiers will accept guidance and follow directions
from a leader they believe knows the correct action or
solution. This confidence is important in combat when
soldiers must believe their leader is able to get them
through dangerous situations.

*

BE TECHNICALLY
AND TACTICALLY
PROFICIENT

SOLDIERS HAVE
CONFIDENCE IN
A COMPETENT
LEADER

16

Chapter 2

FORMS OF INFLUENCE
A leader often uses influence when directing subordinates. It is a way to cause soldiers to do things or
make changes, or it can produce some desired result.
It may be used in scheduled counseling sessions or in
brief, informal coaching at a soldier's place o'f duty.
Influence may take many forms. The form used
depends on what is necessary to develop the subordinates
and to meet the needs of the unit. Following are common
forms of influence:
• Mapping alternatives-The leader suggests alternljltive
actions that the soldier might take. Deciding on which
alternative to use, however, may be left entirely to the
soldier.
• Recommending-The leader recommends one course of
action. Whether or not to accept the recommended actiod
may still be left to the soldier.
• Persuading-The leader tries to persuade the soldier
that a given course of action is in his best interests.
Though the leader wants to sell a certain course of
action, he expects the soldier to make the decision.
Successful persuasion depends both on the leader's
credibility and on the soldier's willingness to listen.
Mutual trust must exist. The leader must have the
expertise to critique the soldier'~ performance.
• Urging-The leader exerts every effort to convince the
soldier to take a given course of action. This is somewhat
stronger than .p&su&Sion without resorting to authority;
there is- no sugges'tion _of a command.
• Advising---The leader advises the soldier that it is in
his best interests to take a given course of action. This
is the strongest form of influence; however, there is no
suggestion of command or threat involved.
• Commanding-The leader orders the soldier to take
a given course of action. There must be no possibility
of the soldier's misunderstanding that a command is
involved. This is an either/or situation. The soldier is
given a command to carry out a given course of action
and will face the consequences if the order is not carried
out. Orders should be given in clear, exact words and
not in a threatening manner.
16

• Punishing-The leader should regard punishment as
the last possible means of maintaining military discipline
when efforts to develop the soldier's sense of responsibility and self-discipline have failed. Positive leadership
is best, but punishment to correct a soldier and enforce
standards is sometimes necessary.
The leader's action with one soldier is soon known
by, and influences, the other soldiers of the 11;nit. Some
actions have greater impact than others, such as a
commander imposing nonjudicial punishment under
Article 15, UCMJ. If corrective action and punishment
are fair and just, the leader's authority and credibility
are stronger. If actions are unjust or inappropriate, the
leader's credibility is reduced. When it becomes known
that a leader's counsel has truly helped a soldier, it is
easier to influence other soldiers.

APPROACHES TO COUNSELING
There are as many approaches to counseling as there
are counselors. Effective leaders approach each soldier
as an individual and probably never use exactly the
same approach with other soldiers. The approaches used
in military counseling are the directive approach at one
extreme, the nondirective approach at the other, and
the combined approach in the middle. These lend
themselves to the types of counseling requirements
confronting Army leaders. They differ in the techniques
used, but they are similar in overall objectives.
During counseling sessions, leaders must be flexible
in selecting their approaches. The type of problem,
personality of the soldier, physical surroundings, and
time available will influence the selection of approach
to be used.
The examples in this section show how the approaches
differ. They are not intended as a template for what
leaders must do in similar situations. The approach
summary chart on page 28 shows advantages and
disadvantages of the counseling approaches.
17

Chapter 2

THERE ARE
DIFFERENT
APPROACHES
FOR DIFFERENT
SOLDIERS

DIRECTIVE
The directive approach to counseling is counselorcentered. Directive counseling is a simple, quick approach
to problem solving that provides short-term solutions.
This approach assumes the leader has all the skills and
knowledge to assess the situation and to offer courses ·
of action. It uses clear thinking and reason and combines
suggesting, persuading, confronting, and directing specific
actions to obtain the results desired by the counselor.
The leader does most of the talking. He states the
problem, identifies the causes, offers explanations, and
lists the options available. He gives advice, offers solutions, and tells the soldier what must be done.
This approach may be appropriate if a soldier's
problem-solving skills are limited or if the soldier is
immature or insecure and needs guidance. Often, a
soldier prefers guidance and seeks this kind of counsel.
A soldier can be mature in his role as Specialist 4 but '
new to the role of family provider and financial manager.
18

This approach can give needed information. It can
provide help for many problems such as indebtedness
and financial management, for on-the-spot corrections,
and for certain aspects of correcting quty performance.
There are three possible disadvantages with using
this approach. First, such dominant influence may create
resentment because the soldier may see the leader as
questioning .his ability or as having all the answers.
He may just let the leader. solve his problem. This
attitude may cause the sol.dier to always depend on the
counselor ratherthan to learn to stand on his own feet.
Second, the leader; may be;; treating symptoms rather
than causes. The real problem ~ay go undetected and
result in other difficulties later oni The leader's analysis
advice may not be on ti;irget .for the soldier's longtel"Il1 needs. Third, decisign~ are 'iiµ~de by the leader,
not by the soldier. Thtf: sol~ier. is'ihen free to blame
the leader for any future failure because he has no
"ownership :of
... the solution.
Leaders may want to assume the subordinates'
responsibility by telling them what to do. Giving advice
in this manner, however, slows or often prevents the
development of personal responsibility. Soldiers must be
assisted to learn to take the initiative and to be accountable for their actions. Developing teamwork in a unit
depends on individual accountability.

and
;.·..-·-

,·.·.'.,"'.'

\''·''

•: ...·,..

*

DEVELOP A
SENSE OF
RESPONSIBILITY
IN YOUR
SUBORDINATES

Sometimes, the directive approach is the only method
that can be used, especially with unresponsive soldiers
or with soldiers who will not make a connection between
their behavior and its consequences. This approach may
also be the best way to correct a simple problem. The
final decision regarding a problem rests with the soldier.
When the counselor has selected a course of action, rather
than assisted the soldier to select one, the soldier's only
decision is to accept or reject the solution.
The following situation shows the directive approach
being used to counsel a soldier with a performance
problem.
.19

Chapter 2

Staff Sergeant Caba is a section sergeant in an air
defense unit. Yesterday, he notified his subordinate,
Private First Class Quimby, that he wanted to discuss
his performance of duty. Caba knows Quimby quite
well and is unaware that he has personal problems.
Private Quimby has just reported to Sergeant Caba at
the designated time.
SSG Caba:
Private Quimby, go ahead and have a
seat. I just wanted to talk to you a little
bit about how you've been doing lately.
Overall, you're a good soldier and a hard
worker. But, over the past few weeks,
I've noticed that you aren't performing
as well as the other section members on
aircraft identification. I know you're
trying, but you're a little behind the
others. What do you have to say about
this?
PFC Quimby: Well, Sergeant, you're right. I can tell
you that I'm a little weak on identification. I just don't seem to be able to pick
it up as fast as the others. I don't know
what it is.
SSG Caba:
It could be a number of things. However,
from my experience, it just takes practice
to get the feel of it. Here is a set of
flash cards on aircraft identification.· I
think you should study them on your
own time. You might want to go to the
Unit Learning Center and look at the
tapes they have. They also have some
short, self-paced classes on identification
that are helpful. I'll be glad to work with
you if you need more help. So, don't wait
to let me know if you are still having
trouble. All right?
PFC Quimby: Yes, Sergeant. That sounds good. I'll
do my best.
SSG Caba:
Good. I'm sure you'll be able to catch
up with the others with a little extra
effort. In two weeks I will go through
the flash cards with you. That's it for
now. Good afternoon.

20

In this example the leader, Staff Sergeant Caba, uses
his knowledge and experience to determine what Private
First Class Quimby needs to do to correct a performance
problem. Caba specifies one course of action and provides ·
the material to implement it. He suggests other things
that Quimby might choose to do on his own. The soldier
is still responsible for improving his performance and
can exercise some initiative. He knows where he stands
and what he needs to accomplish. Private Quimby
must decide whether or not to do what Sergeant Caba
suggests. He must also decide if he should go to the
learning center and, if he does go, what he should do
to improve.

NONDIRECTIVE
The nondirective approach to counseling is soldiercen tered. The counselor causes the soldier to take
responsibility for solving the problem. This approach
is usually more relaxed and focuses on self-discovery,
hence taking longer than the· directive approach. The
role of the counselor is to help the soldier to become
self-reliant.
In this approach, the soldier has the opportunity to
work out solutions to the problem through personal
insight, judgment, and realization of facts. However,
counselees must understand and fully accept two basic
rules. First, defensive attitudes must not prevent discussing
the problems openly and honestly. Second, soldiers must
understand they will be responsible for the problemsolving process and for the decisions they will make.
This type of counseling session is partially structured
by the counselor. It is necessary from the beginning
that the soldier understand and accept his responsibility
for selecting the topic of discussion, defining the problem,
and making all .decisions. Structuring includes informing
the soldier about the counseling process and what is
expected and allotting a certain amount of time for each
session. The soldier must understand that this is his
time. This helps to prevent him from being defensive
or from feeling guilty about taking up the leader's time.
21

Chapter 2

The nondirective approach provides sheltered situations
in which soldiers can look inside themselves. They can
realize a freedom to be what they want to be, feel as
they want to feel, and think as they want to think.
The result is individuals ·who better understand themselves.
This self-understanding usually comes gradually from
their personal insight into problems and their attempts
to solve these problems. For this reason, the nondirective
counseling is far more time-consuming and can involve
many counseling sessions. It is best used with a mature
and capable soldier who is confused about something
and needs some assistance in figuring out what to do.
The leader communicates to the soldier that someone
is interested in listening to his problems. The leader is
not the decision maker or advice giver but rather a
listener. He tries to clarify statements, cause the soldier
to bring out important points, understand the situation,
and summarize what was said. The leader should avoid
giving solutions or opinions. He may, however, provide
certain facts when the soldier requests or needs them
to continue.
The following situation shows the nondirective
approach being used to counsel a soldier with a personal
problem.
Private First Class Hall is records clerk in a maintenance facility. Sergeant First Class Kimball is the shop
NCOIC and Hall's immediate supervisor. During a lunch
break Private Hall asks Sergeant Kimball to talk with
him about a personal problem.

PFC Hall:

SFC Kimball:

PFC Hall:
22

Sergeant Kimball, do you have a minute?
I have a personal problem and I thought
you could give me some advice and
assistance.
Sure, let's go into my office so we can
have some privacy and won't be disturbed
or interrupted. (Both enter the office.)
Have a seat. Would you like a cup of
coffee?
No, thank you.

SFC Kimball:
PFC Hall:

What's your problem?
Well, Sergeant, it's about my wife. As
you know, I got married several months
ago. However, since she's been here and
away from her home town, she's been
miserable. She hasn't made any friends
here, i:i.nd she's awfully homesick. I can't
even concentrate on my job any more .
. Every night when I go home, I can tell
she's spent half the day crying. She's
pretty young, Sergeant, and she's never.
been away from home before. Maybe I
. should send her home.
SFC Kimball: What do you think would be best?
I don't know. I can't make up my mind
PFC Hall:
what would be best. Before she got here,
all I could think of was how great it
would be for us to be together. Now, I'm
not sure if we both wouldn't be better
off if she went home. What do you think,
· Sergeant?
SFC Kimball: I can't decide what is best. Only you
can do that. What does your wife say
she wants?
PFC Hall:
She doesn't really say what she wants
to do. We don't seem to be able to talk
the way we used to. Things just aren't
the same lately.
SFC Kimball: You say that you and your wife are not
able to talk things over?
PFC Hall:
We just can't work our way through
things any more. When we start to discuss
a problem, one or the other gets excited
and we start yelling. If we could sit down
and talk with each other without getting
e~cited, we could probably figure out
what's best to do.
SFC Kimball: I see. How might you be able to do that?
Well, we still care about each other. I
PFC Hall:
suppose somebody might be able to sit
down with both of us and keep things
·calm. That way we could figure out
what's wrong and what to do about it.

28

Chapter 2

SFC Kimball:

PFC Hall:
SFC Kimball:

PFC Hall:

I know some people who are qualified
to do things like that. Chaplain Brian
is pretty good at helping folks to communicate with each other, or Mr. Connor
at Social Work Services has assisted some
families in the unit.
Some special help might be exactly what
we need. I'd appreci~le-it if you could
put me in touch with the chaplain.
All right, I'll arrange for an appointment
with the chaplain. You and your wife
can discuss your situation with him. I'm
sure he can help you to solve this. I'll
let you know later when your appointment
will be.
Thank you, Sergeant. I really appreciate
your help with this problem.

In this situation, the soldier has a personal problem
which requires immediate attention. Sergeant First
Class Kimball selects an appropriate site that provides
privacy and avoids distractions or interruptions. He
then establishes rapport by creating a relaxed, open
atmosphere and by displaying a sincere interest in the
soldier's personal problem. He provides the soldier an
opportunity to state his problem without interruptions.
Kimball asks questions to clarify the nature and scope
of the problem and to stimulate further discussion. He
withholds judgment and does not attempt to assert his
"solution" without regard for Private Hall's desires in
handling the problem. Telling Hall to seek marriage
counseling would do little good. Instead, Private Hall
figures out what is needed. Kimball recognizes his own
capabilities and limitations and suggests referral to an
individual who is trained and qualified to assist in
solving marital problems. Hall is informed of two possible
professional agencies and is allowed to make a selection.
24

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter 2

After Sergeant Kimball arranges the appointment with
the chaplain, he must follow up by informing his supervisor and by continuing to evaluate the situation to
ensure the problem is resolved.

COMBINED
In the combined approach to counseling, the leader
uses parts of the directive and nondirective approaches.
This allows the leader to adjust the technique to emphasize what is best for the soldier. There is no one best
procedure for all situations. The combined approach,
which blends the leader's ability and personality to fit
the situation, is the most frequent choice.
The combined approach assumes that the soldier
must eventually be responsible for planning and decision
making. The soldier will take charge of solving the
problem but may need some help along the way. This
approach allows both the leader and the soldier to
participate in defining, analyzing, and solving the
problem. Still, the purpose is to develop self-reliant
soldiers who can solve their own problems. The leader
can be directive, however, when a soldier seems unable
to make decisions or to solve a particular problem. In
counseling an individual for poor performance, for
example, the leader may begin with a directive approach.
When further discussion shows that a personal problem
is causing poor performance, it may be best to switch
to a nondirective approach.
The techniques involved in the combined approach
often follow the problem-solving process. While the soldier
is talking, the counselor should listen for information
to define the problem. Then he will have a basis for
suggesting solutions. He may suggest all the possible
courses of action, or he may suggest just a few and
then encourage the soldier to suggest others. The counselor helps analyze each possible solution to determine
its good and bad points and its possible side effects.
The ·counselor than helps the soldier decide which solution
is best for him. The soldier is enabled and encouraged
25

Chapter 2

to assume as much of the selection responsibility as
possible. The decision whether or not to implement a
solution will be the soldier's.
The following situation shows a combined approach
to counseling. In this example, the leader begins with
a directive approach to a performance problem. Then a
more nondirective approach is used to enable the subordinate to develop his own solution.
Sergeant First Class Britt is the Personnel Records
Branch NCOIC. Specialist 5 Trent is a records specialist
who supervises two clerks. Sergeant Britt informs his
subordinate, Specialist Trent, that sometime that morning,
for about 15 minutes, he wants to discuss the SIDPERS
acceptance rate. Trent reports to Sergeant Britt, and they
. go into a conference room where they can talk without
interruption.
SFC Britt:
OK, Specialist Trent, we need to talk
about your SIDPERS acceptance rate.
The standard is a rate of 95 percent.
Your section has a rate of 80 percent.
This is something that cannot continue.
What do you see as the cause of this
problem?
SP5 Trent:
Well, it started to drop after Specialist
Garcia was reassigned. Her replacement
and the other clerk are still fairly new.
They're good soldiers who are conscientious, but still inexperienced. They will
get better as they gain more experience.
Yes, I'm sure they will. But, you can't
SFC Britt:
wait for it to get better in time. It needs
to improve now. Tell me what was done
before that would make a difference in
the error rate.
Humm, I see it as a matter of editing
SP5 Trent:
the input. When Specialist Garcia was
still here, she often helped the new guys
with their SIDPERS input.
SFC Britt:
I see.

26

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter 2

SP5 Trent:

I would take a look at their other work,
but I didn't have to check on SIDPERS
very often. With an experienced SIDPERS
clerk, the reject rate wasn't a problem.

SFC Britt:
SP5 Trent:

What do you think should be done?

SFC Britt:
SP5 Trent:

What else are you thinking about?
I suppose I never had to check Garcia
because she always took pride in keeping
the acceptance rate above the required
standard. I've got to instill that same
sense of responsibility in my new clerks..
I believe you're right. How are you going
to do that?
·

SFC Britt:
SP5 Trent:

SF.C Britt:

SP5 Trent:
SFC Britt:

For starters, I need to start checking
their input and coaching them on how
to edit effectively. I kno.w they will do
well once they see how things work.

First, I begin by checking the SIDPERS
input more closely. If I look at it regularly, they'll get the idea that it's important and put more effort into it. Second,
I'll make sure to teach them how to follow
all the procedures in a clear and simple
manner. Third, when the rate starts to
go up, I need to praise them for their
improvement.
That seems to be a good approach. It
looks like you see what needs to be done
and how to go about it. I'm sure I'll see
that acceptance rate improve. Next
Wednesday, report to me on what you've
accomplished. If things don't seem to be
going right, come back to me sooner and
we can think about it some more. Any
questions?
None, Sergeant. We'll have that rate back
up to 95 percent in no time.
That is great. Let's get back to work.

27

Chapter 2

In this example, Sergeant First Class Britt has the
experience and technical competence to know how to
correct the error rate. He could simply list the steps to
take and direct Trent to make corrections. Instead Britt
uses a directive approach until the subordinate recognizes
that there is a problem that must be acted upon. Once
Trent begins to show sonie responsibility, a more
nondirective approach is used. Sergeant Britt guides
Specialist Trent through the problem-solving process todevelop his own solution. Sergeant Britt remains
supportive, but still in control of the session. A time is
set for a progress report, and the session closes with
an expectation of success.
r-

Approach Summary Chart
DIRECTIVE

CQMBl~Et!

~Q~l21BECIDlE

v

Quickest method.

Moderately quick.

Encourages maturity.

A
N

Good for immature/
insecure soldiers.

Encourages maturity.

Encourages open
communication.

A
D

T
A
G

E

Allows counselor to
actively use his
experience.

s

D
I

•

A
D

v

A
N
T
A
G
E

a

28

Dots not en.courap
mturity.

Tends to treat
symptoms, ,not
problems.
Tends to discoura1e
soldiers from tllkin1
frHly.
Solution is the
counselor's, not the
soldier's.

Encourages open
communication.
Allows counselor to
actively use his
experience.

lay take too much
time for some
situations•

Develops personal
responsibility.

SIOwtst Jlllthod,
Requires anltest
counselor skill.

BASIC SKILLS
The most difficult part of counseling is applying the
proper techniques to specific situations. To be effective
the technique must fit the situation, the leader's capability, and the soldier's expectations. In some cases, a
problem may call for giving only information or advice.
An improvement may call for a brief word of praise.
In other situations, structured counseling followed by
definite action may be appropriate. A leader may learn
one or two techniques but still may lack the skills
necessary to be an effective counselor.
·
All leaders should seek to develop and improve their
counseling skills. Military leaders are trained to analyze
a ·mission, identify the required tasks, and take action.
Some of these skills apply to counseling. While leaders
must not try to psychoanalyze their soldiers, they can
use problem-solving and decision-making skills to guide
their soldiers in solving their own problems. Counseling
skills are developed by studying human behavior, knowing
the kinds of problems that affect soldiers, and becoming
good at dealing with soldiers. These skills, acquired
through study and· through the practical application of
counseling techniques, vary with each session. They can
generally be grouped, however, as listening and watching
skills, responding skills, and guiding skills. (More .information can be found in appendix A.)

LISTENING AND WATCHING
Listening and watching skills involve the counselor
concentrating on what the soldier says and does. Thus
the counselor can tell whether or not the soldier accepts
what is said, understands what is important, and understands what the counselor is trying to communicate.
Spoken words by themselves are only part of the
message. The way they are arranged and spoken has
meaning. For example, the leader must try to recognize
the amount and type of emotion used by a soldier when
describing his concerns or problems. This emotion
provides a clue to determine whether the soldier is
29

1

Chapter 2

discussing a symptom or the problem itself. The tone
of voice, the inflection, the pauses, the speed, the look
on the soldier's face, are all parts of the total message.
One important skill is active listening. Part of active
listening is concentrating on what the soldier is saying.
Another part is letting ·the soldier know the counselor
is concentrating, hearing, and understanding what is
said or is "getting the message." Elements of active
listening that the counselor should consider include• Eye contact-Maintaining eye contact helps show a
sincere interest in the soldier. This does not mean that
the counselor should stare at the soldier. Occasional
breaks of contact are normal and acceptable. Excessive
breaks of contact, paper shuffling, and clock-watching
indicate a lack of interest or concern.
• Posture-A relaxed and comfortable body posture
helps put the soldier at ease. A too relaxed position or
slouching may indicate a lack of interest. Being too
formal or rigid makes the soldier feel uncomfortable.
• Head nod-An occasional nodding of the head shows
that the counselor is attentive; it encourages the soldier
to continue.
• Facial expressions-To remain natural and relaxed is
best. A blank look or fixed expression is disturbing.
Smiling too much or frowning may also discourage the
soldier from continuing.
• Verbal behavior-The counselor should refrain from
talking too much, let the soldier do the talking, stay
with the topic being 'discussed, and avoid interrupting.
Speaking only when necessary reinforces and stimulates
the soldier. Silence can sometimes do this too. Occasional
silences may indicate that the soldier is free to continue
talking; a long silence can sometimes be distracting and
make the soldier uncomfortable.
Active listening also means listening thoughtfully and
deliberately to the way a soldier, says things. While
listening, be alert for common themes of discussion. A
80

----------------------------Chapter 2

soldier's opening and closing statements as well as
recurring references may indicate the ranking of his
priorities. Inconsistencies and gaps in the discussion
may indicate that the soldier is not discussing the real
problem or is trying to hide something. Often, a soldier
who comes to the leader with a problem is not seeking
help for that problem; rather he is looking for a way
to get help with another; more threatening problem.
Confusion and uncertainty may indicate where questions
need to be asked:
While listening, the counselor must also be aware
of the soldier's gestures or nonverbal behavior. These
actions are part of the total message that the soldier
is sending. Many situations involve strong personal
feelings. By watching the soldier's actions, the leader
can "see" the feelings behind the wordso Not all actions
are proof of a soldier's feelings, but they must be watched.
It is important to note differences between what the
soldier is saying and doing. Some common indicators
to watch for follow:
• Boredom. may be displayed by drumming on the table,
doodling, clicking a ballpoint pen, or resting the head
in the palm of the hand.
• Self-confidence could be displayed by standing tall,
leaning back with the hand behind the head, and
maintaining steady eye contact.
• Hate and other negative emotions may be indicated
by the counselee pushing himself deeply into a chair,
glaring at the counselor, and making sarcastic comments.
Arms crossed or folded in front of the chest often show
defensiveness.
• Frustration may be expressed by rubbing the eyes,
pulling on an ear, taking short breaths, wringing the
hands, or frequently changing total body position.
• Moving toward the counselor while sitting may indicate
interest, friendliness, and openness. Sitting on the edge
of the chair with arms uncrossed and hands open may
indicate either openness or anxiety.
31

Chapter 2

Counselors should use these indicators carefully. All
soldiers are not alike, and people react differently to a
given situation. Further, although each indicator may
show something about the soldier, it's impprtant not to
assume that a particular behavior means something.
More important, it's better to ask the soldier about the
indicator so that he can understand his behavior and
take responsibility for his actions. This reinforces
individual responsibility for self, as well as providing
credibility to the counselor.

RESPONDING
Responding skills are a follow-up to listening and
watching skills. From time to time the leader needs to
check his understanding of what the soldier is saying.
The counselor's response to the soldier should clarify
what has been said. Responses should also encourage
the soldier to continue. As part of active listening,
responding skills allow a leader to react to nonverbal
clues that the soldier is giving. Responding can be done
by questioning, summarizing, interpreting, and informing.
Questioning. This is key to the counseling process.
The what, when, who, where, and how questions fit
most counseling situations. When used properly, wellthought-out questions can actively involve the soldier
in his own problem. But a leader who asks a constant
stream of questions is saying, "I'll ask the questions,
you give the information; then I'll tell you what to do."
Questions that ask for answers in the soldier's own
words are more effective than those causing a yes or
no response. A soldier's answer to "How do you feel
about being stationed here in Germany?" will give more
insight into the soldier's feelings than "Do you like being
stationed here?" Similarly, "What do you think needs
to be done next?" will get a more useful answer than
"Are you going to do something about this?" Questions
that begin with "why" tend to put soldiers on the
defensive. If asked "Why were you late?", the soldier
is likely to give some excuse rather than explain what
82

- - - - - -

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter 2

the real problem is. The counselor can be misled by
the quick and defensive answers to "why" questions.
(More questioning techniques are in appendix A.)
Summarizing. This pulls together all the information
that a soldier has given. It is also a way for the counselor to check his understanding of what the soldier
has said. Summarizing is done by restating the message
in the counselor's own words and watching the soldier's
reaction. This prevents a soldier from rambling on once
a topic has been thoroughly discussed. It clarifies what
has been said and stimulates further discussion.
Interpreting. This is similar to summarizing except
that the leader gives the soldier a new frame of reference
or way of looking at something. Its purpose is to develop
a total picture of the problem so that the soldier can
view the problem differently than before. The leader may
suggest how others may view the situation. It is hoped
that the soldier will better understand the nature of
the problem and be able to deal with it.
Informing. This is giving information that may help
or change the soldier's views. The information may have
come from what the soldier has just said. The soldier
can also be confronted with information provided by
the counselor. The information may be needed by the
soldier to continue or may be in answer to something
he has asked the leader. Informing can also be used to
show the soldier his behavior may lead to further
conflicts, trouble, and confusion.

GUIDING
Guiding skills can add structure and organization
to counseling. A leader uses problem-solving and decisionmaking skills to help the soldier reach a solution. It is
relatively simple to use these skills when using the
directive approach. It is not so simple to guide the
soldier through the process of examining the situation,
setting a goal, and then figuring out how to reach it.
The soldier should be led through the steps in such a
way that he figures out what needs to be done.
88

Chapter 2

There are seven basic steps of problem solving,
decision making, and planning. The steps can sometimes
help to structure counseling. These steps with examples
of guiding remarks that may fit each step, depending
on the situation, follow:

D. Iden,tify the problem.
··What is the cause of this problem?
. What is the biggest source of trouble?
Tell me about what's wrong.
Why is this a problem for you?
How did this happen?
I'd like to hear how you think things got this way.
Let's list all. your concerns, then we'll prioritize them.

fl Gather:. information.
Let's get the facts.
What's the background of -this?
Who is involved?
What has been done?
Tell me how this works.
Describe some examples of that.

II Develop courses of action.
What do you want?
How would you like things to be?
What are some ways to do that?
How could you get things to be the way you want?
Let's figure out what can be done.
What else might work?

IJ Analyze and compare courses of action.
I'd like to hear about that.
What are some problems with doing that?
34

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter2

What makes that better?
How come you are concerned with that?
What are the disadvantages?
What does that have to do with the problem?
Will this get you what you want?
How will this affect our unit/organization?

II Make a decision; select a course of action.
What solution will work best?
Which one do you like?
Can you describe the most likely answer?
You need to pick a course of action.
It's time for you to make a decision.

II Make a plan.
What are your next steps?
How do you get that done?
Now you need a plan.
How are you going to do that?
Who's got to do what?
What else must happen?
What could go wrong? How can you avoid that?

B Implement the plan.
If you don't have any other concerns, you're ready
to go.

Now it's time for you to act.
Okay, get started. See me on Friday and let me
know how things turn out.
I think you've got things figured out, it's up to you
now.
85

Chapter 2

SUMMARY.

·.

This chapter has discussed the skills and techniques
needed ]Jy a< lea.der to be an effective counselor. The
key points of thi~ discussion include:
· • The leader.: must be a C()mpetent soldier and deroonstrate,.that cdlllpetence to the soldiers.
··
~···Most ~oldiers respond to leaders who care.
• Leaders i'nfluen&~· their soldiers' performance through
1 mapping alternatives, persuading, urging, advising,
' coipmanding, and punishing.
.
. • ·The approaches to military counseling are directive,
. nonai.r~ctive, or combined.'
.
. •~ E,ffective, counselors use a uniquely different approach
· . .·with each soldier.
~
• Leaders must help soldiers to solve their own problems.
• The basic skills are to listen and watch the soldier;
to respond to what he says, does, or omits to say; and
·to guide him to reach successfully his selected outcome
or solution.
\

86

CH APTER 3

Reasons for
Counseling

CONTENTS
PAGE

RECEPTION AND INTEGRATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tranaltlon Objective• • . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Orientation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sponaorahlp • . . ......... • ...........................

38
39
40
41

PERFORMANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Growth and LHrning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evaluation of Action• . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Improvement of Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

42
42
44
44

PERSONAL . ...•..... . . . · :~ · ....... . ;, .. . . . ............ 45
Sold I er'a Problem• . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . 45
Leader' a Limitation• . . . . . . . . . . • . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 7
Outalde Agenciea . .... . ............................ 47
DISCIPLINE ... • ,,~ ............................ ·'•'• .. . . · ~ 49
Leader Action• . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Corrective Meeaurea .................. . ............ 51
PROFESSIONAL GROWTH AND GUIDANCE . . . . . . . . 52
Prof..alonal Development ........ .: . . . . . . . .. . . .. .. . 52
Career Guidance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
SUMMARY .... , ...•.. t, ·. ~ ••••.•••••.••.••...••••.••• • 54

87

Chapter 3

Reputation
Let me tell you what I heard about the i1ew platoon
sergeant. from some folks in her old unit. They say
she is olle ·sharp NCO who makes it her business to
know what's going on; she doesn't miss a thing. When
you talk to her ·she listens and gives you good information. 'J'h.en . she makes things happen. Her people are
always g¢tting recognition or special passes ft<>ni the
CO for being squared away and for getting:. things;
done:. They have iQ work hard, but she shovvs them
hov\r. She make~·'s:ure everybody knows'.what to do ... ·.
One soldier wb<> was havin~ problems a,t .hbme w~
getting. into trouble until he transfelil"ed )o her platoon. ·
She help~d JJ,im figure out .what 'to do :a!ld"·got him
squar,e(l a~ay. 1\nother guy was going ,to re-:up as ·soon
he<' was ,eligible, and she got som'e ,info from th~'· .
·R~rilistment NCO. that showed him how .4) get a better '
·a~aL ·. ·
· ·
· • · ··· · •
·

as.

· They say that you'd better not mess .UP .,or ,plfiy
things off; .though, or you'll find yourself stanclfng there
explaining. She doesn't raise her voice much; she
doesn't have to because you know she means business.
And when she stops, looks you in the eye, and tells
you that you've done well, you know she means that
too!

RECEPTION AND INTEGRATION
Counseling that welcomes new soldiers to the unit
should begin immediately upon their arrival. Newly
assigned soldiers must adjust before they can become
effective members. This adjustment will occur most
rapidly with an effective reception and integration plan.
This is probably the most important step in starting
soldiers properly in a unit. Leaders must make a strong
effort to sponsor and receive soldiers properly, set the
standards, and make them part of the team.
Assisting new soldiers promptly with administrative
in-processing is only part of the plan. They need to be
welcomed and to have their needs addressed. This
88

J

"Specialiat Sabo,
welcome to the
beat company
in the Army."

applies equally to new soldiers, to soldiers arriving from
another assignment, or to soldiers returning after a long
absence. Soldiers returning from special duty away from
the unit or TDY to a distant location may find the
home base situation has changed. They will need to
adjust to those changes.

TRANSITION OBJECTIVES
Reception and integration counseling must accomplish
two major transition objectives. The first is to identify
and resolve any problems or concerns that the soldier
has before they reach a crisis. Upon reporting to a unit,
the soldier is thinking about such things as getting paid,
learning administrative requirements, or establishing a
position among peers and leaders. If married, his main
concern is getting the family settled. It is better for
leaders to provide facts and useful information to new
soldiers befor e they are misled or taken advantage of
by others. This will help with soldier and team development and with unit readiness.
89

Chapter 3

The second major objective is to set the standards.
The soldier must know what is expected of him and
what the required standards are. As part of this communication, the soldier must learn what he can expect
from the unit's leaders. This is an opportunity to prevent
future difficulties by explaining what must be done and
what should be avoided. Soldiers must feel that their
leaders have sincere concern for their well-being. Soldiers
who feel that they are sincerely welcome-that they will
be valued members of the unit-have increased confidence to cope with new and unknown situations.
ORIENTATION
Each activity has its own requirements for orientation
and in-processing. These are normally established
procedures identified in local command directives. A
complete reception and integration counseling program
should• Resolve problems with personal affairs.
• Introduce the new soldier to peers and the leaders in
the chain of command.
• Explain all of the procedures for in-processing and
the schedule for accomplishing them.
• Explain the unit's history and traditions, missions,
and activities.
• Explain how the new soldier's duty assignment is
important to the unit and its mission.
• Explain the standards of conduct and the performance
expected of the soldier in a new duty assignment.
• Explain the unit's policies on leaves and passes, duty
rosters, promotions, and job performance evaluations.
• Explain opportunities and facilities for personal and
professional improvement and development.
• Inform the new arrival of the facilities available for
spiritual needs, conveniences, and off-duty recreation.
• Inform the new arrival of the functions and locations
of assistance agencies.
• Explain local customs and off-limits areas.
40

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - C h a p t e r 3,

As with all counseling, follow-up is important. A brief,
informal follow-up after 30 days ensures that the soldier
has been completely integrated into the unit. It also
provides some recognition for difficulties he may have
experienced as part of the team.
While the importance of reception and integration
counseling is dear, leaders at all levels must ensure
that soldiers who are leaving the unit receive the same
concern as those arriving. Departing soldiers should not
be left to fend for themselves while leaders devote their
time and effort to their other soldiers. These soldiers
often develop negative attitudes that can be carried to
their new unit. The receipt of reassignment orders does
not immunize the soldier from problems. This .is a time
when the soldier experiences a great deal of turmoil in
his life, and leaders must show concern, and provide
guidance just as they did when he first arrived. A troublefree departure from his old unit can help make a soldier's
integration into his new unit more successful.

SPONSORSHIP
A soldier's first impression of his unit has a lasting
effect. A sponsor can play an important part in this
initial impression. Appointing a sponsor to a new arrival
for the first few weeks benefits both the soldier and
the unit.
The sponsor should be someone from the same unit,
preferably from the same squad or section where the
new arrival is assigned. Leaders should select a good
soldier who is experienced and knowledgeable and will
be a positive influence. Sponsors should have as much
as possible in common with the new arrival and be
the same rank and MOS. Single soldiers should sponsor
single soldiers; married soldiers should sponsor married
soldiers.
The tasks required of the sponsor will vary with the
rank, experience, and duty assignment of the new arrival.
Generally, the sponsor is a peer who helps the new
soldier become settled and oriented to the new surroundings. He may accompany the new arrival to
41

Chapter 3

finance, supply, and other places where in-processing
is conducted. The sponsor may coordinate whatever
family assistance is required.

PERFORMANCE
Performance counseling informs soldiers about their
jobs and the. expected performance standards and
provides feedback on actual performance. Soldier performance includes appearance, conduct, mission accomplishment, and the way duties are carried out. The
purpose of counseling may be to help a soldier maintain
or improve a satisfactory level of performance or improve
performance that is below standards. Good leaders issue
clear guidance and then give honest feedback to let
soldiers know how they have performed.
Honest feedback is essential for motivating soldiers
ENSURE
THAT THE TASK and controlling a unit's performance. The leader first
IS UNDERSTOOD. observes the soldier's performance of duty, his ability
SUPERVISED, AND to complete an assignment, and his approach to accomACCOMPLISHED plishing a mission. The leader then tells the soldier
where he stands. Those things that· have been done well
or that show improvement must be praised. The contribution that the soldier's performance has made to the
unit should be noted. This reinforces the importance of
his duties and helps to foster cohesion. Feedback should
. also include ways to improve performance.

*

*

KEEP YOUR
SOLDIERS
INFORMED

Performance counseling needs to be done continuously
as part of the leader's role as a teacher and as a coach.
Unit readiness and mission accomplishment depend on
each soldier's ability to perform his duties and to act
in a proper manner.

GROWTH AND LEARNING
Regardless of how it is conducted, performance
counseling must be a teaching process with continuous
growth and development its object. Through personal
growth, soldiers realize their full potential. Growth and
motivation are stimulated by the challenge of a soldier's
job and by the guidance and encouragement of the unit
leaders.
42

Every soldier must be capable of doing the assigned
job~ Every duty assignment, therefore, demands a leader's
careful consideration. He must know the individual's
character, preferences, ambitions, qualifications, and
potential.
The opportunity for learning to take place results
from conditions created by the leader. Motivation, in
turn, results from learning and is greatly influenced by
personal values. Those conditions under the leader's
control that stimulate learning and motivation include• Accurate evaluation of performance.
• Rapport between leader and soldier.
• Clear and Ull.derstandable communication between
leader and subordinate.
• Mutual agreement concerning performance areas where .
improvement is required.
• Specific actions for improving performance.
• Feedback on· progress.
• Expectation of success.
Growth and learning of subordinate officers are
enhanced by the proper use of DA Form 67-8-1, OER
Support Form. This valuable tool enables leaders to
direct subordinates in a way that fosters mission
accomplishment. It clearly shows subordinates what is
expected of them and allows for their participation in
the decision-making process. Further, it focuses on the
linkage between individual performance and the unit's
m1ss1on.
The key to successfully using this form is the joint
establishment of objectives at the beginning of the rating
period with periodic reviews and revisions when
necessary. Face-to-face discussion is essential for success.
Simply having neatly prepared forms in a file is unacceptable. Taking the time to teach subordinates and to
have open discussions on mission-related issues is the
objective. (Some techniques for using the support form
. are described in appendix B.)
4.3

--

Chapter 3

EVALUATION OF ACTIONS
Performance counseling begins with evaluating the
soldier's performance or actions. It should be restricted
to appraising and discussing observed actions and
demonstrated behavior rather than diagnosing character·
or suspected attitudes. The emphasis is on exchanging
information about performance, not emotion. For example,
"Private Bellus, I see that you have difficulty connecting
the handset to the radio" addresses a specific shortcoming. "Bellus, you're no good at setting up the radio"
is a general and negative statement.
The emphasis on talking about specific actions
applies to improved and positive performance as well.
Praise and recognition are important. A simple "Sergeant
Swadish, you have done wonders in the motor pool" is
a good motivator. This can be even more effective if
specific actions are discussed. · For example, "Sergeant
Swadish, I see that your driver training program has
eliminated most of the operator maintenance deficiencies"
says exactly what was done well and reinforces it.
One way to structure performance counseling is to
use evaluation report forms as discussion guides. A
quarterly review of the subordinates' actions can be done
using these forms as outlines to discuss specific duties
and performance objectives. This ensures that soldiers
receive periodic feedback on all aspects of performance
that will be formally evaluated. It allows for reassessing ·
priorities, goals, and needs. ARs 623-105 and 623-205
contain useful information on setting objectives and
evaluating performance. This approach helps the leader
to assess the overall capability of the unit.

IMPROVEMENT OF PERFORMANCE
Methods or actions to improve performance need to
be discussed. In many cases, soldiers know when they
have failed or have not done well, especially if they
know the standards. Some soldiers require that the
counselor be directive and list item by item what must
be done to improve. Other soldiers, with some nondirective guidance, can figure out what to do.
44

Determining ways to improve is based on the leader's
first evaluation of soldier performance. Specific actions
must be viewed to figure out why a soldier is below
standard in a given area. It may be that the soldier
does not know how or does not want to do something
or that something prevents proper performance. For each
reason, steps needed to improve performance are different.
If a soldier does not know how to do something, he
needs to take steps to practice and learn. A soldier who
does not want to do something may just need to understand the reasons. If missing or wrong equipment
prevents effective performance, then steps need to, be
taken to correct the situation so that improvement can
take place. By discussing specific actions,. the leader
will be far more effective in helping soldiers to improve
their performance.

PERSONAL
Personal counseling involves helping a soldier solve
a personal problem. Problems may vary from financial
matters to marital difficulties. The emphasis must be
to help the soldier solve his own problems. A soldier
may ask to talk to the leader about a problem, or he
may be referred for counseling by someone else. Sometimes a need for personal counseling may be indicated
during a performance counseling session or by a change
in the soldier's behavior. The goal remains the same:
help the soldier develop initiative, recognize his problems,
and solve his own difficulties.

SOLDIER'S PROBLEMS
In personal counseling, the counselor must always
consider the soldier's point of view. What a leader views
as simple or minor may look overwhelming to the soldier.
Successful personal counseling follows two basic
guidelines. First, the leader must be committed to the
principle that every soldier, regardless of rank or duty
assignment, has the right to be heard. The leader should
use counseling techniques that help subordinates clarify
their feelings and consider alternate courses of action

45

Chapter 3

in solving their problems. The leader must not look down
on soldiers because they have personal problems. With
this attitude, the soldier is never treated as a person
less important than the counselor. The leader, as
counselor, becomes a helper whose. authority, training,
and technical expertise as a soldier permit better
understanding and acceptance of the subordinate who
asks for help.
Second, the leader should realize that relatively
mature and healthy persons can look at their personal
problems intelligently and reach satisfactory solutions.
While soldiers may seek help thinking through a
problem, they should be free to choose their own
solutions. A soldier should not be pushed into solutions
that were selected by a counselor in answer to the
soldier's personal problem. The soldier will not learn
to find solutions if they are always given. The soldier
cannot take credit for the success of someone else's
solution. The soldier can shift blame for failure to the
counselor.
The soldier should be helped to think through his
problem and how he feels about it and to understand
his involvement and what he wants to have happen.
To do this he must feel at ease with the counselor.
Talking openly to someone about a personal problem
is seldom easy. The counselor must listen to and understand the problem and try to get the soldier to define
just what the problem is and what must be done.
Many personal problems arise because soldiers are
somehow failing in their relationships with others. For
this reason, a soldier may also have trouble relating to
the leader as a counselor. The leader must break through
that barrier with firm and caring leadership. If the leader
cannot communicate with a deeply troubled soldier, he
must obtain help for the soldier from a counselor with
specialized training. Once personal problems are resolved,
soldiers can more effectively perform their duties.
46

LEADER'S LIMITATIONS
Leaders will find they are limited as counselors. They
cannot help everyone in every situation. Not even
professional counselors with a counseling degree can
provide all the help every soldier in trouble needs.
Leaders must recognize their limitations and offer only
that kind of help for which they are trained and
qualified. It is okay to refer a soldier to outside agencies
or someone more qualified to help when the situation
calls for it. The leader who does is not a failure; he is
being more effective in resolving problems.
Outside help from support agencies should normally
be obtained by using the chain of command. Soldiers
do have the right to contact certain agencies on their
own such as the chaplain or the inspector general. This
right must be respected. It is generally in the soldier's
best interest, however, to first seek help from his leaders.
There are three major reasons for using the chain of
command:
• The soldier must have permission to be absent from
the unit.
• Many problems can be solved at company or battery
level if they are known. This does not imply that all
problems can be solved at these levels. A problem may
exist that the soldier does not care to discuss with unit
personnel.
• The commander must be kept informed of problems
or complaints in his unit.

OUTSIDE AGENCIES
The leader, as counselor, must know the location and
function of all available assistance agencies and know
when to refer a subordinate to them through the chain
of command. When soldiers' problems are beyond the
ability of the unit's leadership to help, counselors with
specialized training and skills are needed. By using
specially trained counselors, unit leaders have more time
to deal with other soldiers in the counseling situations
that they have been trained to handle..
47

Chapter 3

Attempts to conduct counseling in those areas in
which a leader has not been educated and certified can
make matters worse. Soldiers with emotional problems
tend to challenge the leader by not responding to
attempts to improve performance. This often happens
when counseling efforts are made in ignorance of the
real cause of the problem. It is possible to incorrectly
assess a problem situation and suggest an inappropriate
course of action. Leaders can cause further harm by
involving themselves in situations for which they are
not equipped to deal. Marital problems, for example,
should normally be referred to a marriage counselor or
chaplain.

THESE AGENCIES
CAN ASSIST
SOLDIERS

Some personal problems require information or action
of a technical nature from support activities. Personal
counseling with a leader may help a soldier with a
financial problem decide what to do. Implementing the
solution, however, may require assistance from the pay
inquiry section at the Finance and Accounting Office
or budget counseling from Army Community Service.
A variety of support agencies exist in and around
most military communities. The following activities are
commonly available to provide technically competent
assistance to soldiers and dependents with problems
beyond the expertise of their leaders:
• Adjutant General
• Alcohol and Drug Control Office
• American Red Cross
• Army Community Service
• Army Education Center
• Army Emergency Relief
• Career Counselor
• Chaplain
• Claims Section
• Community Counseling Center
• Community Health Nurse
• Community Mental Health Service

48

----------------------------Chapter 3

• Equal Opportunity Staff Office
• Finance and Accounting Office
• Housing Referral Office
• Inspector General
• Legal Assistance
• Social Work Service
• USDA Food Stamp Office

A GOOD LEADER
LEARNS WHEN AND
HOW TO USE'THESE
AGENCIES.

(More information on the services offered is in
appendix C.)

DISCIPLINE
Counseling soldiers who have violated regulations,
policies, or other set standards is a necessary part of
the leader's duties. Discipline counseling is used when
the leader takes corrective steps that will not result in
formal punitive action against the soldier under UCMJ.
N onpunitive measures are normally applicable for minor
or first offenses concerning conduct or inefficiency. If
action by a commander under Article 15, UCMJ, or by
a. court-martial is likely, the leader must ensure that
the accused soldier is advised of his Article 31, UCMJ,
rights before discussing the incident.
Telling subordinates about their positive conduct or
discussing specific ways to improve performance is easy.
It is difficult and usually unpleasant, however, to
discipline subordinates when they fail to meet the
required standard. When counseling soldiers whose
conduct disrupts unit morale and effectiveness becomes
necessary, it must be done with fairness, firmness, and
respect for the soldier.
Discipline counseling differs from performance
counseling. While both improve performance and
maintain standards, performance counseling stresses
success and uses praise to reinforce positive actions.
Discipline counseling stresses failure to meet set
standards of conduct. It is intended to be corrective,
not punitive. It details specific deficiencies that must
improve. Discipline counseling becomes necessary wh~n

49

Chapter 3

.. Private Parker. this
is the second time
you've been reported
for safety violations...

a soldier shows no progress, makes no effort to improve,
or acts in an unacceptable manner. It is normally highly
directive in its approach to correct behavior and eliminate
deficiencies.

LEADER ACTIONS
Like any other type of counseling, discipline counseling
requires certain leader actions and preparation. It should
he conducted privately. Leaders must have their facts
in order and remain unemotional. Only the soldier being
counseled, the leader, and involved members of the chain
of command need be present. The counselor should take
the following action:
• Tell the soldier why he is being counseled, what was
expected, and how he failed to meet- that standard.
• Address the specific unacceptable behavior or action,
not the character of the soldier.
• Tell the soldier the impact of his behavior, actions,
or performance on the rest of the unit.
• Actively listen to the soldier's response.
• Tell the soldier how to meet the standard. Be prepared
to do some personal counseling. The disciplinary problem
may be the result of an unsolved personal problem.
• Determine the appropriate action such as reprimand,
corrective training, administrative action, or referral to
the commander.
• Explain to the soldier what will he done, and why.
• Take action and follow up.
60

CORRECTIVE MEASURES
Leaders at each level of an organization have different
measures they use to improve performance qr behavior.
Many of these actions are described in chapter 8, FM
27-1. Leaders must consider how individual soldiers
perceive these measures. These pe:f·2ept{ons
the
individual, as intended by the leader, are important' for
a~hieving the,;desired result, whether it be cortection,
rehabilitation,. deterrence, or some combination of these.
Corrective fueasures are intended to prevent big
problems arising from small ones .

ny

. Punishments. can be imposed by courts-martial '.or by
commanders under Article 15, UCMJ. Commanders also
have the authority to implement certain nonpunitive
measures. Various administrative actions can be initiated
by the chain of command as corrective measures. Some
options available are• Deferment of discretionary benefits such as pass
privileges, driving on post, or use of the PX or the EM
club.
• Admonitions and reprimands.
• Corrective training.
• Administrative reduction.
• Revocation of security clearance.
• Bar to reenlistment.
• MOS reclassification.
• Transfer or reassignment.
• Alcohol and drug rehabilitation programs.
Some of these administrative actions are similar to
punishments authorized under Article 15, which is nonjudicial punishment. For example, restriction, a punishment under Article 15, is like revocation of pass
privileges. A commander may give the leader authority
to deny the pass privileges of a soldier who is late to
duty or who leaves early. Short, well-regulated, and
supervised denials of pass privileges can be an effective
disciplinary measure.
51

Chapter 3

Extra training led by non,commissioned officers on
weekends or after normal duty hours is often more
effective than formal punishment in improving soldier
performance. It must be related to a specific deficiency,
generally one involving inefficiency as opposed to misconduct:. Its intent is ,to. cqrteCt substandard performance
in som~ ~rea. Bec~tl.se it ~~uses the loss of free time,
extra training is. inconvenient for both the soldier and
his leaders.·. It' :requires concerned and caring leaders.
It demonstrates good leadership through leaders role
modeling proper actions themselves and then coaching
and developing their soldiers. Corrective training must
hot become an illegal form of punishment; improved
performance is the goal.

PROFESSIONAL GROWTH
AND GUIDANCE

*

KNOW YOUR
SOLDIERS AND
LOOK OUT FOR
THEIR WELL-BEING

PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A leader concerned with the professional development
of subordinates accurately informs his soldiers on the
many challenges and benefits of an Army career.
Counseling is most important during the first few
months of a young enlisted soldier's or officer's career.
During this period, soldiers form impressions they will
carry throughout their service.
As they gain experience, soldiers need opportunities
for continued professional growth. Such opportunities
range from reading programs through resident military
and civilian schools to future assignments. Leaders at
all levels must ensure their subordinates know what is
required for promotion and what opportunities are
available for professional growth and development.
Subordinates can then set realistic goals. (A worksheet
to assist enlisted soldiers establish professional development goals is at appendix D.)
CAREER GUIDANCE
The leader's experience, maturity, and attitude are
vital in influencing soldiers to remain in the Army.
Leaders must not only know their subordinates well,

62

LEADERS ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR
THE SOLDIER•s
PROFESSIONAL
GROWTH AND
DEVELOPMENT.

they must also be well informed on professional development requirements and educational goals. Certain
professional development opportunities for additional
schooling, special programs, or future duty assignments
will be viewed differently by different soldiers. A
concerned and knowledgeable leader can help a soldier
to determine those areas where he can make the greatest
contribution. The more leaders know about their subordinates, the Army, and current programs, the better
equipped they will be to provide worthwhile career
guidance.
Certain requirements exist for reenlistment counseling
(detailed in AR 601-280). A unit's reenlistment program
describes how to meet these requirements. Career

counseling is not a spur-of-the-moment project; preparation is needed. To conduct effective career counseling
the leader must• Know and understand the soldier.
• Be aware of the soldier's attitudes, motivations, and
skills.
• Be completely familiar with the advantages and
benefits of an Army career.
• Know the options available to the soldier.
• Know the criteria for reenlistment.
• Identify which options are in the best interest of the
soldier.

63

Chapter 3

Although leaders should not urge all soldiers to
remain in the Army, they must provide subordinates,
especially good soldiers, with factual information about
reenlistment. For a soldier completing his first term of
· service, reenHstment is a major decision. It is then
. necessary to follow up and continue to counsel good
· soldiers about an Army career. Those uninterested or
undecided may consider reenlistment after they receive
. additional information from capable and caring leaders.

SUMMARY·
This chapter has shown thi:it leaders must understand
the different reasons for ,counseling ~.oldiers. Counseling
involves ideas, opinions, advice, recognition, as well as
plans for the development and growth of soldiers.
Counseling individual ·soldier~· is part of developing a
cohesive unit. Leaders p:r:-ovide honest feedback, information, and guidance that' strengthen t~amwork and help
soldiers·. to be motivated· to better ·perform their tasks.
Common reasons for lead~r cou't1seling. include• Reception and integrati'on.:c(junseling to foster soldier
and team development by pttjperly integrating new unit
. members or those returning aft~r long absence.
• Performance counseling to inform soldiers about their
duties or appearance, explain how to meet required
standards, and give honest feedback on actual
performance.
• Personal counseling to help soldiers solve their own
problems or to refer them to those who can and then
to follow up to assure that soldiers are helped.
• Discipline counseling to improve soldier performance
by correcting disruptive behavior and inappropriate
actions, thus improving unit effectiveness.
• Professional growth and guidance to guide
subordinates' professional growth and inform them about
opportunities for future service.

a

54

CHAPTER 4

Effective
Counseling

CONTENTS
PAGE
COUNSELING PROGRAMS . .. . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . .. • . . . .. 56
COUNSELING PROCESS .. . . .. . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . • • • . . 58
Prepare for Counseling . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . • . • . • . . • . • • 58
Conduct a Counseling Seaaion .................... 61
Follow Up on Counseling . .. . . • . .. .. .. .. . . .. . . .. . .. 63
REACTIONS AND PITFALLS . . . . . .. .. . .. .. . .. . . .. . .. . 65
Soldier Reactions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . 65
Counseling Pitfalls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . 67
SUMMARY ........•••........••.•••.•..•........••.•• 70

55

Chapter 4

Planned Action
The new lieutenant wondered what he was going
to do about the man who, until last month, had been
his best NCO. The sergeant had been in charge until
the lieutenant arrived from the Officer Basic Course.
The sergeant was an old pro who watched out for
the lieutenant and gave him sound advice while he
learned the ropes. The unit really functioned smoothly,
and the lieutenant owed the sergeant a debt of gratitude for his helpful guidance. Then the sergeant began
slipping up-first, on little things, then on more
important duties. There were definite signs that
alcohol was involved-the troops could see it too. What
was the lieutenant to do, and how? The lieutenant
thought for a while, made up his mind, and began to
prepare for some counseling he wished he didn't have
to do.
Six months later, the unit had just completed an
unannounced readiness test and received praise for its
excellent state of preparedness and its overall
performance. Everyone carried his share of the load.
The sergeant came up to the lieutenant and thanked
him for making that hard decision and for getting
involved six months before. The sergeant now knew
he had been headed for serious personal trouble and
would have let the unit down if it had not been for
the lieutenant's watching out for him.

COUNSELING PROGRAMS
An effective counseling program is essential to developing a cohesive unit capable of accomplishing its
mission quickly and efficiently. A unit's counseling
program can be viewed as an organizational communication system that strengthens the links in the chain
of command. All soldiers, especially those in leadership
positions, need periodic counseling and coaching. In a
properly operating program, leaders all along the chain
of command counsel their immediate subordinates. For

56

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter 4

example, company commanders expect to be counseled
by their battalion commander just as privates are
counseled by their immediate NCO leader.
Counseling programs improve communication in a
unit by building trust and confidence. The communication must flow upward as well as downward. A leader's
respect .for the dignity and well-being of subordinates
is reflected in the counseling he initiates. This helps
create a positive command climate where soldiers initiate upward communication. Soldiers seek out their
leaders to share information, ask for advice, and look
for assistance with their problems. When these
exchanges benefit subordinates, open and improved
communications result. (More information about the
communication process is in chapter 8, FM 22-100.)
A counseling program must be designed to meet the
needs of the unit. It can be established by a policy
letter, the unit SOP, or the commander's directive. In
any situation, it must foster an "open door" attitude.
All members of the chain of command must be accessible to their subordinates. There must also be
scheduled or periodic counseling and coaching. A
soldier must be told often how he is performing, not
just when an. efficiency report is due.
A unit program should accomplish the following:
• Strengthen the chain of command.
• Clarify policies and procedures.
• Reinforce standards.
• Prevent rumors.
• Praise success.
• Provide feedback on administrative actions.
• Clarify priorities.
• A void surprises.
•_Provide needed information.
• Develop responsible subordinates.

57

Chapter 4

COUNSELING PROCESS
PREPARE FOR COUNSELING
Preparation is the key to a successful counseling
session. Sometimes, however, planning for counseling
is not possible. This is the case when a soldier asks
for immediate help or when the leader gives a pat on
the back or when he makes an on-the-spot correction.
In such situations, however, leaders who know their
soldiers and their duties are mentally prepared to
respond to their needs. The leader can always provide
effective and timely guidance.
In preparing for scheduled counseling sessions, the
leader should consider the following points:
• Notify the soldier.
• Schedule the best time.
• Choose a suitable place.
• Decide the right atmosphere.
• Plan the discussion.
Notify the Soldier. The soldier who is to be
counseled should be given advance notice. As a
minimum, notification should tell the soldier why,
where, and when the counseling is to take place. This
gives the soldier an opportunity to prepare his
thoughts. Just as leaders need time to prepare, soldiers
being counseled need time to prepare and organize
what they want to say. The soldier may have other
commitments that are more important or that need to
be rescheduled.
Notification too early, however, may disrupt some
soldiers. This is particularly true if a young soldier is
notified far in advance of a counseling session with
an officer or senior noncommissioned officer. He may
be nervous about speaking to someone several levels
above him in the chain of command and spend the
time worrying about the meeting.
Normally, counseling is conducted by the soldier's
immediate noncommissioned officer supervisor. When
counseling is to be conducted by another more senior
leader, the .chain of command should be used to notify
58

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter 4

the soldier. The leader may not choose to use the chain
of command, however, when the topic of counseling is
personal. In this case, the chain of command should
be informed that the individual will be. counseled on a
personal matter.
Schedule the Best Time. Ideally, a counseling session
should be shorter than half an hour, and always less
than an hour. If a session will require more than half
an hour, scheduling two sessions may be best. Longer
sessions become unproductive and tend to get off the
subject. Counseling soldiers about very difficult issues
is tough. Such issues often are not resolved in a onetime shot. One meeting may be enough to define the
problem, but not enough to ensure success. Complex
problems needing more than an hour may indicate the
need for additional expertise. It is better to counsel
soldiers during the duty day. Keeping a soldier after
duty hours may cause a negative exchange.
In deciding when to schedule the counseling session;
the counselor should select a time free from competition
with other activities. Leaders should also consider what
has been planned after the counseling session. If something highly important will take place, soldiers may
be
and unable to concentrate on the counsel.1ngdistracted
.
session.
Choose a Suitable Place. The place selected for a
counseling session should be free from distracting
sights and sounds. A location where the leader can
listen to the soldier without interruptions is best. ·
Counseling is not restricted to an office; it may well
be conducted in the field, motor pool, barracks, or
wherever duties are being performed.
Decide the Right Atmosphere. Having the right
atmosphere promotes two-way communication between
the counselor and the soldier. A soldier at ease normally discusses matters more openly. To establish a
relaxed atmosphere, the leader may let the soldier sit
or drink a cup of coffee during· the discussion. The

69

Chapter 4

counselor may want to get out from behind the desk
and sit in a chair facing the soldier. A desk can act
as a barrier to free and open communication.
Sometimes, however, the situation makes an informal atmosphere inappropriate. The setting is important;
certain familiar areas may undermine the counseling.
For instance, in discipline counseling the soldier is
directed to remain standing while the leader remains
seated behind a desk. This kind of atmosphere reinforces the counselor's rank, position in the chain of
command, and authority as a leader. This is normally
used to give specific guidance that the soldier must
follow. The subordinate quickly learns that the leader
is demanding a certain manner of bearing, conduct,
and soldierly response.

Plan the Discussion. Counselors should outline what
they wish to talk about. It should guide the discussion
but allow flexibility to react to situations that develop
during the counseling. The outline should include points
to discuss and the order in which to mention them.
The outline is a tool; it should not prevent discussing
the soldier's concerns.
Counselors must be certain they have the necessary
information, are familiar with it, and are sure of the
facts. This can be done by• Collecting information and data to better understand
the soldier's ideas and attitudes.
• Summarizing and organizing the information to
describe strengths and weaknesses or advantages and
disadvantages.
• Interpreting the information as it pertains to meeting
established standards as well as looking for certain
consistencies and patterns.
• Identifying the problem from a leader's view and trying to discover the cause. The leader's perspective of
the problem may be different from the soldier's view.
Hence, outlines must 'be flexible.
60

Important to the plan is deciding what approach to
U.se during the counseling session. For performance,
personal, and career counseling especially, the better
the leader knows the soldiers, the easier it will be to
decide what approach to use and to plan the discussion.
(Information about ways to structure counseling is provided in appendixes E and F.)

CONDUCT A COUNSELING SESSION
A counseling session can be divided into three
phases: opening the _session, discussion, and closing the
sess10n.

Opening the Session. The manner used when opening the counseling session largely determines its
effectiveness. The first objective is to establish rapport
with the soldier and to reduce any uncertainty. Since
nervousness and tension are easily detected, the
counselor must create an atmosphere that will not
disturb the soldier. When using the directive approach
especially, the leader must appear confident and in
control of the situation. When using the nondirective
approach, the soldier must feel relaxed and free to
speak openly. Once the soldier has finished reporting
in the proper manner, the leader begins to establish
the climate by either starting the discussion with the
soldier standing or by placing him at ease and offering
a chair. The leader's first actions and remarks help
establish the desired atmosphere.
The second objective is to explain the reason and to
outline the conduct of the counseling session. In
performance, discipline, or career counseling, the leader
normally explains the reason for the session and what
he hopes to accomplish. In cases where personal
counseling has been requested, the soldier should outline what he hopes to obtain from the session. Also,
leaders should establish the structure, set general time
limits, and discuss the degree of confidentiality at the
start of the session.

61

Discussion. During this phase,_ the leader should
ensure that effective, two-way communication is taking
place. Whatever the reason for counseling, both parties
must have a clear understanding.
The steps taken depend upon the reason for counseling, the approach used, and the way the leader has
outlined the discussion in preparing for the session. If
using a problem-solving process, the leader gathers
information and then causes the soldier to define the
problem, develop courses of action, select the best
solution, and implement it. Career counseling requires
different steps. In the case of a first-term soldier
uncertain about reenlistment, the leader might first
cause the soldier to explain his accomplishments and
strengths or "where he is at." He then might have the
soldier explain in general terms what his future goals
are and what he wants to do next or "where he is
going." Finally, the leader can tell the soldier how to
match his strengths and goals with specific career
opportunities or "how he can get there."
In any situation, if misunderstanding arises, the
counselor must stop and clear up any confusion,
perhaps by going back to a previous step. If, during
counseling, the nature of a soldier's problem or need
for information seems to be beyond the ability and qualifications of the leader, the leader should stop and refer
the soldier to the appropriate support agency.

Closing the Session. In closing the counseling
session, the leader must summarize what has been
discussed. The counselor must ensure that both parties
understand what each is expected to do. One way is to
have the soldier review what he is going to do and
wha:t he expects the leader to do. Any additional questions may be answered, but the closing is not the time
to bring up new information. Any future meetings
should be scheduled, at least tentatively, before dismissing the soldier.
62

FOLLOW UP ON COUNSELING
The leader's duties have not been fully performed
when the counseling session ends. After talking and
listening to a soldier, the leader should pause to assesa
his own performance during the session. Then he must
either act on or follow up on what was discussed.
Ensuring that the proper actions are being taken and
that the right things are happening contributes to a
leader's credibility. The time taken to follow up helps
make the counseling efforts productive and contributes
to the unit's· effectiveness. ·
Follow-Up Measures. Follow-up is the key to get
results from counseling. A leader's follow-up measures
may include• Letting the chain of command know the results of
counseling regarding the soldier's reaction or decision.
• Taking action or making referrals to outside agencies
as agreed upon during the session.
• Continuing to evaluate the situation to ensure that
the problem is being resolved or that the proper action
is being taken.
• Recognizing any positive results, even simple things.
This can be done with a letter, a certificate, an award,
a good efficiency report, or even with a pat on the back
and simple praise.
..
• Taking corrective measures for poor results. Another
counseling session may be necessary to determine if
there has been any change. In some cases of failure to
respond to performance counseling, a discipline counseling session may be necessary.
Written Records. Keeping written records is important
in follow-up. This documentation is a ready reference
of a soldier's accomplishments, improvements, personal
preferences, or problems. A complete record of counseling provides the leader a tool to aid in recommendations for professional development, schools, promotions,
and efficiency reports. DA Form 4856-R can be used to
record most counseling. (Examples of written record outlines are in appendix D.)
6!J

Chapter 4

"Speciali•t John•on,
I checked into
your application
for jump •chool and
you go in January."

Certain legal and administrative actions require
written records of counseling. Many elimination actions
do not succeed because the unit leadership failed to
document its counseling of the substandard soldier.
These .unsuccessful actions both aggravate the commander and undermine the morale of a unit. In those
cases where separation is a distinct possibility,
emphasis must be placed on maintaining accurate
counseling records. The fact that the commander is
documenting the soldier's substandard actions conveys
a strong corrective message to the soldier.
When there is no locally required form or policy on
records of counseling, the following items are recommended:
• Date, time, and place of the counseling session.
• Reason for counseling.
• Individuals involved.
• I terns or probl ems discussed.
• Soldier response.
• Recommendations made or actions to be taken.
• Required follow-up actions.
• Counselor's signature.
Any written records must be kept confidential and
destroyed when the soldier leaves the unit. This
maintains the soldier's trust and confidence.
84

-------'----------------------Chapter 4

REACTIONS AND PITFALLS
SOLDIER REACTIONS
Soldiers react to counseling in many ways. Their
reactions are influenced by the reason for counseling
and by the way it is initiated. Most soldiers want to
be considered capable of performing their duties and
want to gain the approval of their leaders. However,
there are also negative reactions to counseling. These
n~gative reactions can block improved performance and
soldier development. The reactions discussed here·
include. both. positive and negative reactions as well as.
suggestfons ·for. dealing with them.

Nervousness. The soldier may appear nervous and

l

overly sensitive. This may be caused by the counselor's
own nervousness or by his failure to put the soldier at
ease. The counselor should explain the purpose of the
session to eliminate any uncertainty. He may begin by
discussing something the soldier has done well or by
discussing a subject with which the soldier is familiar.
Giving the soldier a chance to respond may help relieve
the tension.

Cooperation. Most soldiers react positively to the
guidance and assistance of a competent leader. Most
are willing to participate and accept suggestions for
improvement. Some may be surprised at parts of the
discussion, but they will respond eagerly and may even
ask for more constructive guidance to gain recognition.
Rational Disagreement. Soldiers may not always agree

J

with criticism or with evaluation, but disagreement can be rational and unemotional. Counselors
should expect some disagreement based on differences
in information available, personality, and perception of
the situation. It could be helpful toward developing selfreliance in the soldier. Disagreement may come about,
however, because the soldier has not understood what·
has been said. Misunderstandings need to be clarified.
Once the soldier understands, there may still be
disagreement.
65

Chapter 4

"Too Easy" Agreement. The soldier may· agree
completely and almost too easily. This may show that
the soldier does not understand or is indifferent. Th.e
counselor must ensure that the soldier is truly agreeing,
rather than trying to avoid more criticism or trying to
avoid confronting a problem. Rank may also influence
the soldier, causing him to feel intimidated or that
disagreeing is wrong. The soldier must feel free to
speak honestly and openly.

Determination to Argue. The soldier may seem ·
determined to argue or disagree with any evaluation,
opinions, or suggestions. This may indicate that the
problem is not what it appears to be. The soldier may
be scared or have some disorder that requires professional help. The soldier must be encouraged to talk
freely while the counselor listens to determine what the
real problem is. The leader must calmly, and without
arguing, ensure the soldier understands the leader's
point of view. Referral through the chain of command
may be necessary.

Attempts to Shift Blame. The soldier may . seek to
avoid blame by shifting the criticism to other soldiers,
superiors, or even to official policy. The soldier must
be allowed to explain fully while· the counselor listens
impartially. The leader may need to guide the soldier
through the discussion while the leader organizes the
information and assists the soldier to provide specific
information to substantiate each claim. The soldier
may retreat from any position that is unsupported by
facts. The leader must inform the soldier that all of
the circumstances described will be verified. This may
require another counseling session to provide feedback
to the soldier. The soldier should be required to take
responsibility for those matters which are his.

Loss of Temper. The soldier may lose his temper and
become emotional, angry, or abusive. The counselor
should listen, not argue, and try to find what caused

66

---------'------------.,---------Chapter 4 ·

the loss of temper. The soldier may recover and counseling can continue, or the counselor will restore order
and explain that such behavior will not be tolerated.
Postponing the session until the soldier cools off may
be necessary.

Desire to Quit. The soldier may want to quit and turn
away from problems. The counselor can explain ways
to overcome the problems and then convince the soldier
to try. It may be necessary to end the counseling
session without a resolution and deal with the problem
later so that the soldier does not feel a solution has
been forced on him.

COUNSELING PITFALLS
A pitfall is a hidden or not easily recognized danger
or difficulty. Likes, dislikes, biases, and prejudices are
potential pitfalls that can interfere with the counseling
relationship. These are common pitfalls the leader
should a void.

Personal Bias. Values are ideas about the worth or
importance of things, concepts, and people. They come
from a person's beliefs. Personal values influence personal priorities or desirability of different alternatives.
If differences between personal values are ignored,
facts can become distorted and pr_oblems further
complicated.

Rash Judgments. This is the tendency to evaluate a
soldier on the basis of appearance or of a specific
behavior trait. For example, some people will say of a
neatly dressed soldier passing by, "There goes a good
soldier!" This statement is not always true because the
evaluation is based on one characteristic-neatness. A
halo effect may come from a significant accomplishment or from a favorable first impression. It can also
result from one bad impression, from disciplinary
problems, or from association with a group whose
67

Chapter 4

members are known to be troublemakers. After a rash
judgment is made, the leader tends to ignore significant
information, thus failing to develop a complete or
accurate evaluation. To overcome this, the leader should
always keep the problem in mind and challenge those
evaluations based on one factor or observation.

Stereotyping. This involves judging soldiers on
presumed group physical or behavior characteristics.
Examples include the false judgment that all big ~ol­
diers are slow, all thin soldiers are weak, or all soldiers
with high foreheads are intelligent. These notions are
seldom correct. Evaluations should be made only on a
soldier's demonstrated behavior or on his demonstrated
ability and not on presumed physical, racial, or other
characteristics. Leaders should not stereotype soldiers
nor should they let stereotyping affect an evaluation
or recommendation.

Loss of Emotional Control. The advantage of selfcontrol to a leader applies in his role as counselor. If
the counselor controls his emotions, the soldier is led
to do the same. If the counselor loses control, he loses
control of the session and little is accomplished. Differences of opinion are acceptable, but arguing, debating,
or having a heated discussion is not. These actions
take time away from the counseling session, upset the
soldier, and weaken the ability to think clearly. While
there may be disagreement with a philosophy or attitude, it should not influence the evaluation of the
situation.

Inflexible Methods. This refers to using the same counseling methods with all soldiers. Soldiers will vary
according to their individual personalities, experiences,
education, problems, situations, and surroundings. The
same counseling approach or technique will not be
effective for all. Leaders must know each soldier's
individuality and adapt their approach accordingly.
68

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter 4

Apiateur Character Analysis. Leaders must recognize and accept their limitations in counseling soldiers.
Simple problem solving, providing facts, and evaluating
duty performance and conduct are within the range of
most leaders' competence. The temptation to become an
amateur psychologist or psychiatrist must be avoided.
Leaders should not try to determine or to change deepseated personality disorders that certain actions of the
soldier might indicate. Counselors must be able to
identify those situations which are clearly beyond their
capabilities and refer the soldier to the appropriate
support agency for help.

Improper Follow-Up. To retain and strengthen the
soldier's confidence in his leaders, proper and complete
follow-up is important. The soldier may request more
information at the close of a session. A brief outline
and confirmation of the information should be obtained
. prior to the next meeting. Unkept promises to one
soldier will cause the loss of confidence and respect of
other soldiers. Follow-up is especially important when
a soldier is referred to an agency for assistance.
Because of his referral, the soldier may feel that the
leader no longer cares. Sometimes soldiers are intimidated by outside agencies and may require intervention
by the leader.

Reluctance .to Counsel. Young, inexperienced leaders
often hesitate to counsel subordinates on areas for
improvement. Some junior leaders may want to avoid
the unpleasant duty of discussing shortcomings for fear
of becoming unpopular. Others may be reluctant to
counsel subordinates who have been in the unit or
service longer than they have. But without the counseling effort, problems will get worse. These young
leaders must realize that they have a responsibility to
counsel subordinates fairly and objectively and that
their seniors will assist them in developing their counseling skills.
69

Chapter 4

SUMMARY
This chapter has explained the elements of effective
counseling. Every counseling situation will be different;
there is no one single plan or process for successful
counseling. The elements of effective leadership counseling that were discussed are• Leaders must prepare for their counseling responsibilities by knowing their soldiers and their duties.
• Leaders must mentally prepare to respond to soldiers'
needs in critical situations or to provide on-the-spot
praise and guidance.
• Counseling sessions must be planned and conducted
with specific goals in mind.
.
• The way th~ leader opens the discu~sion signific~ntly
influences the soldier's behavior or reactions.
·
• Leaders must follow up on counseling to ensure that
all actions discussed are accomplished.
• Leaders must be alert for soldiers' reactions during
counseling and respond appropriately.
• Knowledge of the common counseling pitfalls ~elps
leaders to avoid them.
·
·
·

70

CHAPTER 5

Training
Leaders
to Counsel

.-

,,? - .
-- ---· ~

- ~- ~---

CONTENTS
PAGE
NEED FOR TRAINING • .. • .. .. • .. . .. • . .. . . . . .. . • . . .. . 72
METHODS FOR TRAINING .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. • 73
Role Modeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Feedback ........................................... 74
Role Playing . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . 75
SUMMARY .•..•.•.•..•.•..•••.••.•••.•.•...••........ 77

71

Chapter 5

The Difference
Am I glad the section sergeant gave us some help
to improve our counseling skills. I didn't know what
I was going to do with Private ·Spivey. I learned a
little about counseling when I went to the NCO
academy. I'm good in my MOS, but that didn't help
me in dealing with Spivey. I just wasn't doing any
good with him.
But, after our last NCO professional development
on leadership counseling, I've done some things differently. I learned then what I was doing right, and
I got other ideas on what I might do to be more effective. When I talked with Private Spivey again, that
all helped and made a real difference. You can't argue
with success. The section sergeant sure knew what
he was doing when he set up those exercises for us.
Things are going better because of it.

NEED FOR TRAINING
Counseling is an essential leadership competency. It
is related to many of the other elements of military
leadership. Knowledge of basic counseling skills and
techniques and the ability to apply them are necessary
for leaders to perform their duties. Leaders become
more capable as they gain further knowledge and experience as counselors.
Counseling training improves unit leaders' ability to
help their soldiers, thus improving a unit's overall readiness and capability to perform its mission. Unit leaders
probably have received some counseling instruction in
officer or noncommissioned officer courses or at a
service school, academy, or training center. This introduction to counseling is a basis for further development
at the unit level. Even experienced leaders with
advanced instruction can benefit from a good professional development program in leadership counseling.
A unit conducts training exercises to further develop
72

l

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter 5

Its leaders in certain job skills, techniques, and procedures. It should also conduct training to further develop
and improve leaders' abilities to counsel subordinates.
Learning to counsel effectively is not a simple
process. A basic knowledge of skills and techniques
can be acquired through self-study and in a classroom.
(Appendix F provides examples of how this might be
done.) Developing the ability to counsel results from
practice. By applying the knowledge and skills learned
in the classroom, leaders develop and increase their
counseling proficiency. This can be done in a training
situation through role playing or by on-the-job experience. Leaders must have an accurate evaluation of their
own counseling abilities and make changes to increase
their effectiveness when dealing with others. Junior
leaders can look to their . seniors for assistance and
guidance. A leader should always seek to improve his
own ability to counsel subordinates.

*

K~OW YOURSELF

AND SEEK
S~H.. F-~MP~OVICMENT

METHODS FOR TRAINING
ROLE MODELING
All leaders must train their subordinate leaders to
improve their ability to counsel. One method is by rolemodeling. A unit leader continually shows counseling
methods and techniques to his subordinate leaders in
his dealings with them. The leader must realize that
his actions model and demonstrate the expected counseling behavior, no matter how informal those actions
may be.
For example, when a platoon sergeant counsels a
squad leader on accomplishing a mission, he is showing one approach to performance counseling. The squad
leader is influenced by the way he is treated. The platoon sergeant serves as an effective, role model if he
shows a firm, knowledgeable, and caring approach. On
the other hand, if the platoon sergeant is weak at
praising and recognizing good work, the squad leader
will probably be weak in praising his subordinates.

73

Chapter 5

SUBORDINATES
LEARN TO USE
PRAISE FROM THEIR
LEADER'S EXAMPLE.

FEEDBACK
Another method used to develop counselors is feedback. There are many ways to learn the basic concepts,.
skills, and techniques of counseling. To become proficient, one must then apply the skills and techniques in
role playing or in actual counseling of soldiers.
Feedback on the effectiveness of a leader's counseling
efforts is necessary if development and improvement
are to take place. And, with some thought and creativity, the time and opportunity to provide feedback on
a leader's performance evaluation should be available
in most units.
Peer evaluation is one useful technique for providing
feedback. Oftentimes a subordinate leader is named to
present instruction or to conduct a short briefing for
the rest of the unit. When the training is completed, a
few of the subordinate leaders can gather for a brief
74

performance counseling session. One of them can evaluate the leader who led the training. The other leaders
can watch and listen and then provide feedback on the
conduct of that performance counseling. The officer
or senior noncommissioned officer in charge controls
this type of peer evaluation to ensure ·that appropriate
comments are made. Immediate and informative feedback is provided in a realistic situation .. If the
. performance counseling properly addressed observed
actions rather than making value judgments, there is
little chance for conflict. The counselor must be factual
and objective or the counselee may become defensive,
argumentative, or withdrawn. He is nof role playing.
He .really .performed the task he is being counseled on
and .will respond accordingly. This process can be done
quickiy and with different subordinate leaders each
time.
Leader evaluation is another technique for providing
feedback, A leader's immediate superior sits in on a
counseling session with ·a soldier. When the. counseling
is over and the soldier has been dismissed, t;he senior
leader shares his findings with the junior leader and
offers advice or guidance. This works best when the
soldier knows and is comfortable with both of the
leaders. This technique is not appropriate for every
situation and should be used in a way that does not
degrade the authority of the junior leader.

ROLE PLAYING
Role playing is also used to train counselors, with
feedback playing an important part. The effectiveness
of role playing depends on the use of real situations
and on the ability of the counselee to act and behave
as a soldier being counseled would react to his leader.
In conducting this activity, the people playing the roles
of counselor and counselee must be given slightly different instructions. The counselor needs some general
information; the counselee, more detailed information.
(Some examples are given in appendix G.) Other participants observe and then provide feedback at the
76

Chapter 5

conclusion. A tape recorder can be used to record and
play back the role playing. This assists observers in
citing specific remarks. Or the session can be recorded
on videotape and played back while the o hserver
provides feedback. In this way the counselor can see
and hear what he has done. This causes the observers
to concentrate on describing specific actions, statements, and gestures and their observed effects.
Role playing can be done to meet the needs of the
participants. There is no requirement to role play an
entire counseling session. Any part of counseling can
be practiced in this exercise. It may be necessary to
practice establishing rapport with a nervous soldier at
the beginning of a session or just to practice active
listening skills. The situations might be based on problems that have been experienced or on circumstances
that are peculiar to the unit or location.
The observers in any role-play exercise have an
important responsibility. They must watch and listen
and then provide the feedback Thus they are practicing
many of the skills necessary for conducting performance counseling. They must provide feedback on
specific actions rather than on general statements.
"You had some good nonverbal responses" is a general
statement that is not particularly useful. A better
observation would be "The counselee said he might
have a new idea, and then you leaned forward in your
chair with a different expression on your face showing
that you were interested in hearing his idea, and he
continued in detail." The observers identify observed
actions and results.
As leaders gain in experience, they become accustomed to using styles and methods that have worked
previously. In role-playing exercises, students are free
to try different methods. They can practice something
new or something they are weak at without fear of
failing. And no subordinate will be harmed while the
leader is developing a new skill or technique.
76

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Chapter 5

Unit counseling training can be based on just two
references-this manual and FM 22-100. The information in these two publications, together with conscious
application, enables leaders to improve their counseling
skills. Additional materials for general information,
unit training, and self-improvement are listed in the
reference section.

SUMMARY
This chapter has discussed training and developing
leaders to fulfill their responsibilities as counselors. To
improve proficiency in applying counseling skills and
techniques, the following points should be considered:
• Counseling ability results from applying knowledge
learned in the classroom.
• To improve their counseling ability, leaders must
have feedback or an evaluation of their counseling
efforts.
• Role playing and peer evaluation are possible ways
of providing feedback.
• Leaders serve as role models when they counsel
subordinate leaders.
• Professional development in units can be done informally or in structured training sessions.

77

Chapter 5

·'

78

APPENDIX A

Counseling and
Communication
Effective communication is essential to leadership.
To counsel effectively, leaders must communicate effectively. This appendix supplements chapter 2 by giving
examples of statements, questions, and phrases a leader
might use to begin and maintain effective communication in the counseling session.
The leader can use these statements or phrases
when practicing active listening or when responding.
They serve to encourage the soldier and to obtain
information on guiding and controlling the session.

ACTIVE LISTENING COMMENTS
Active listening involv~s concentrating on what the
soldier is saying and letting him know that he is being
heard and understood. The soldier must be encouraged
to communicate with the counselor. He must feel that
his message is being received by the counselor.

REFLECTIVE STATEMENTS
The leader paraphrases what the soldier says to
bring out what the soldier means or feels. By paraphrasing, the leader shows that he understands the
soldier and that he is trying to view the situation as
the soldier sees it. This helps to prevent confusion.
Some reflective statements follow:
• This is what you said....
• You say you feel ...
• It sounds like ...
• In essence, you've said this ... .
•From your point of view .. .
• In other words, what you are saying ...
• You believe ...
79

Appendix A

GENERAL LEADS
These are statements the leader uses to encourage
the soldier to continue, to explain his problem, or to
tell how he feels about it. Some examples follow:
• Tell me more about it.
•Uh-huh.
• Tell me more.
• How's that?
• This is the time to get it off your chest.
• I see.
• I'd like to listen, if you want to talk about it.
• I'd like to hear about it.
• I know it's difficult to talk about.
• Would you explain that more?

SILENCE
During a counseling session, pauses in verbal communication may occur. They may vary from a few
seconds to several minutes. The significance of the
pause depends on when it takes place and who starts
it. The leader must judge the reason for the pause and
respond accordingly. Following are some times that
silence occurs and possible reasons why it occurs:
• At the start of the session, the soldier is afraid of
discussing the problem or his feelings about it.
• The soldier is thinking about what he just said.
• The leader and/or the soldier have finished talking
about a thought or a subject.
• The soldier is at the point of discussing an emotion-·
ally painful situation (a personal problem) or has just
brought up the subject.
• The soldier does not trust the leader, either because
of past experience or because of fear of. a chewing out.
• The soldier wants some assurance support or confirmation from the leader.
80

~-------------------~-----Appendix A

The following phrases may be used to break the
silence and to continue communication:
• It's rather hard to express difficult situations.
• I'd like to be trusted.
• I'd like to help.
• If you want to talk about it later, I would like to
listen.
• If you decide that you'd like to talk later, I'll be here.
• Take your time, there's no rush.
• I get the feeling that you don't really want to solve
this.
• It is kind of embarrassing to talk about.

RESPONDING COMMENTS
Responding skills are similar to active listening
skills. The leader uses both to determine causes for poor
duty performance or lack of discipline and to clarify
and assess the nature and extent of a personal problem.
Responding can be done by• Questioning.
• Interpreting.
• Summarizing.
• Informing.

QUESTIONING
When used properly, questions show interest, encourage further explanation, guide the discussion, or verify
understanding. They also disrupt if asked in a constant
stream or for the wrong reasons. Some questions can
be threatening, putting the soldier on the defensive.
Encouraging and nonthreatening questions include• What would you like to have happen?
• When do you think you will be ready for the next
step?
• Where should that take place?
• How did things get to be like they are?
Questions that challenge the soldier or ask for a
simple yes or no response do not generally contribute
to the counseling effort. "Why" is threatening to most
people and often causes excuses rather than reasons.
It should be used carefully.
81

Appendix A

SUMMARIZING
The leader may summarize the content and feeling
of the soldier's statements at various times during the
counseling session. Summarizing is helpful• When a topic has been exhausted.
• When the soldier tends to ramble.
• When planning steps are appropriate.
• To check the leader's understanding of what was
said.
• At the end of the session.
Phrases to use when summarizing are:
• So far, you've said this ....
• In summary, what has been said up to this point .. ~
• Let's recap what you said up to now ....
• Okay, you've covered ...
INTERPRETING
Interpreting, though similar to summar1z1ng, provides ·a new way of viewing the problem or situation.
Useful phrases include• From where I stand, it appears .. .
• What seems to be operating is .. .
• I wonder if ...
• Basically, it appears that ...
• Another way you can look at it is ...
• Tell me how your spouse might see that.
• From another viewpoint the problem can be that ...
INFORMING
Informing responses provide information that the
soldier needs to continue. They may also resolve
inconsistencies of fact or feeling. Sample phrases or
statements follow:
• On one hand you say ... and on the other you do ...
• Don't forget that ...
• Then it isn't (original problem) you are worried about,
it is ...
82

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Appendix A

• What you first wanted was ... and now what you say
IS .. ~

• I'm not sure we understand; explain how that ...
• You just said ... but now ...
• I feel that there is something I don't know yet.
• You have me confused.
• The facts are ...
Using "I messages" is an effective technique for
informing or confronting soldiers with the facts. The
counselor uses I messages to tell others what their
behavior is and how it affects the counselor or the unit.
The express intent is to get them to change the
behavior.
The basic rules for sending an I message follow:

•Describe specific behavior. Tell the person exactly
what you see and hear, but do not judge or evaluate
his behavior.
Example: Private Smith, I see that you knocked over
the bookcase as you walked by and left it
that way.
Private Smith, you deliberately (judging)
Not:
knocked over that bookcase because you are
angry at me (evaluating his reason).

• Express how you feel about it. Tell the person
how you feel about his behavior, your gut-level reaction
(frightened, angry, nervous, frustrated, proud, happy,
glad, excited), but not what you think about his
behavior. It works best if you can share the underlying
fear or threat rather than the instant anger.
Example: I feel frightened.
Not:
I feel you shouldn't do that (thinking).

• State the tangible effect. Tell the person how his
behavior will affect you or the unit if it continues.
Don't tell him how it may affect him; in other words,
don't threaten him.
,83

Appendix A

Example: Someone will trip over the bookcase and
hurt himself.
Not:

If you don't pick it up, I will send you to

the first sergeant.
Example: You've helped me in solving my problem,
and I'm happy and excited to be a part of
this unit and working with· you.
I messages must always be followed by active
listening to work through any defensiveness caused by
the I message.

GUIDING COMMENTS
Guiding skills are used by the leader to add structure and organization to counseling. Through guiding
skills, the leader helps the soldier learn ways to
improve performance, solve a personal problem, or
identify and select the ideal outcome. In guiding the
soldier, the counselor may need to cause the soldier to
accomplish the following:
• Define the statement.
• Identify strengths.
• Recognize constraints.
• List and prioritize concerns.
• Develop new options.
• Reorient on different circumstances.
• Reframe or take a changed view.
• Prepare a plan.
84

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Appendix A

Sample phrases that can be used are• You are looking for some ways to straighten this out.
• Can you think of something that might work?
• Could we think of some ways together? What can
you think of?
• You want to figure some way to work this through.
• What do you think you can do about this?
• You want some help with this. Let's see what we can
think of together. Got any ideas? (If the soldier cannot
come up with ideas, the leader should develop several
choices for the soldier to choose from.)
• You want to straighten this out, but you don't know
how.
• I get the idea that you'd like to work this out somehow. Got any ideas?
• Would you like to practice talking to Jones with me?
Shall I be Jones or you? (This is a good chance to
model something that might work for him and that
may be acceptable.)

• If I were Smith, I would understand if you came and
said ...
• If I were Smith, I would like to know how you felt.
• You don't like any solution you see. Can we think of
some more?
• You want to straighten it out, but it is going to be
hard.
The leader should recognize that the above statements and phrases are examples only and do not
represent a complete list. The leader should develop his
own. phrases that are appropriate to each counseling
session.
85

86

APPENDIX B

OER Support Forms
This appendix offers some. possible techniques for
using the DA Form.67~8-1 as a counseling and teaching
tool. For specific requirements and detailed information
on the Officer Evaluation Reporting System, refer to
AR 623-105.

INITIATE THE PROCESS
It is necessary to begin the process of rater-to-rated
officer interaction at the start of the rating period. The
following are some ways of ensuring this is done:
• Discuss duty description and major performance
objectives as part of initial reception to the unit and
follow up within 30 days.
• Provide to the subordinate the raters', and possibly
the senior raters', support forms.
• Furnish subordinate with any published commandwide goals, organizational objectives, or unit mission
statements.
• Begin a new rating period by jointly outlining a new
support form immediately after counseling a subordinate on the completed OER.

PLAN FOR MISSION ACCOMPLISHMENT
Organizations have specific missions and establish
objectives or goals that lead to mission accomplishment.
Planning individual tasks that lead to successfully
attaining these goals is facilitated by the following:
• Translate prescriptive organization goals and unit
missions into descriptive performance objectives.
• Use mission-related objectives to give direction to
subordinate unit leaders.
• Establish priorities among the specific duties and
objectives detailed on support forms.
• Include nonquantifiable or qualitative objectives in
addition to those traditionally quantifiable.
• Identify steps or milestones that lead to long-term or
complex objectives.

87

Appendix B -----~---------------------

ENCOURAGE CONTINUOUS
COMMUNICATION
Frequent, face-to-face, mission-related communication
is necessary for leaders to fulfill their roles as teachers
and coaches. The following techniques can foster open,
but meaningful, discussions:
·
• Refer to the specifics described on the support form
when counseling and coaching subordinates.
• Review support forms with subordinates at least
quarterly and make pencil additions or revisions as
needed.
• Solicit input from subordinates on what is being accomplished and what shortcomings must be addressed.
• Assist subordinates to overcome deficiencies during
the rating period.
• Check for understanding by asking subordinates to
state performance objectives and explain their contributions to the unit's mission.
• Demonstrate senior rater involvement and review by
initialing the support form back to the rated officer at
the end of the rating process.

88

APPENDIX C

Support Agencies
This appe!ldix contains information on agencies that
furnish technically competent assistance to soldiers. It
shows the sources for frequently needed information.
General descriptions are provided for common support
activities:

• The Adjutant General provides personnel and administrative services support. These services include orders
production, ID cards, retirement and survivor assistance, assignments, reassignments, deferments, and in/
out processing. In overseas areas the Adjutant General
provides postal services as wen ·as additional personnel
services such as passport processing.
• The Alcohol and Drug Control Officer strives to
educate the entire military community, including family
members and DA civilians, on alcohol and drug abuse
and on personal roles in rehabilitation and prevention.
Often the Alcohol and Drug Control Officer coordinates
enforcement and command referral actions ·with individuals who may have a drug or alcohol problem.

• The American Red Cross assists with communications between the soldier and his family in emergency
and compassionate situations. It provides emergency
financial assistance, discharge and review board counseling, and many volunteer service activities. Programs
often include youth as well as adult courses in health,
nursing, safety, first aid, and swimming.

• The Army Community Service provides assistance
to military families through its information and referral services, budget and indebtedness counseling, household item loan closet, information on other military
posts, and welcome packets to new arrivals. It also
maintains a volunteer organization to support the local
community.

89

• The Army Education Center provides services and
programs for continuing education and individual learning. An MOS reference library is often operated to
support individual soldier development.

• Army Emergency Relief gives :financial assistance
through interest-free loans or grants in situations.
involving medical expenses, family member funerals,
required travel, basic living necessities, disaster assistance, or privation of family members. Army Emergency
Relief personnel also provide personal budget counseling
and coordinate student loans through Army Emergency
Relief Educational Loan Programs.
• Career counselors provide current information on
prerequisites for reenlistment and selective reenlistment
bonuses and explain reenlistment options. They are also
a good source of information on service benefits and
programs.

• Chaplains are familiar with support activities in the
local community. Unit and installation family life
chaplains can provide training on personnel effectiveness and preventing sexual harassment. They provide
enrichment programs, couples' communications seminars, religious retreats, parenting skills training, as
well as other programs dealing with human issues.
They offer pastoral counseling in the form of interviews, guidance, personal counseling, visitation, and
spiritual help. Chaplains perform sacramental rites and
ordinances according to their denomination. Depending
on the chaplains' individual training, they may provide
premarital, marital, family life, and child counseling or
workshops.

• Claims Section, Staff Judge Advocate, handles
claims for and against the government, most often
those for loss and damage to household goods. It processes claims involving medical expenses of the Army
for treatment of soldiers and their families caused by
. the negligence of others.
90

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Appendix C

• The Community Counseling Center provides alcohol and drug abuse prevention and control programs
for the installation. These programs are directed and
coordinated by the Alcohol and Drug Control Officer.
• The Community Health Nurse provides many preventive health care services including home and office
visits, consultations, and group health instruction. The
Health Nurse often serves as liaison with civilian
community helping professions and makes referrals to
various military health care professionals or mental
health facilities.
• The Community Mental Health Service provides
assistance to soldiers and their family members through
a professional staff of psychiatrists, social workers,
psychologists, and behavioral science specialists. They
conduct counseling treatment services, psychotherapy,
crisis intervention, evaluations, and consultations.
• The Equal Opportunity Staff Office is available
to service members and their families for matters
involving discrimination in race, color, national origin,
sex, and religion. It provides information on procedures
for initiating complaints, guidance on what constitutes
an equal opportunity complaint, and assistance in
resolving complaints informally.
• The Family Advocacy Officer conducts and coordinates programs in support of childi:en and families
including abuse and neglect investigations, counseling,
special treatment, and educational programs.
• The Finance and Accounting Office often provides
a Customer Service Branch to interface between the
soldier and the pay system by handling inquiries .for
pay allowances and allotments.
• The Housing Referral Office gives soldiers counseling, guidance, and up-to-date information on the local
housing situation, both rental and sales. Military personnel are required to contact the Housing Referral Office
before entering into any off-post lease or agreement.
This office is responsible for receiving and processing .
complaints for discrimination in off-post housing.
91

• The Inspector General deals with rendering assistance, correcting injustices affecting individuals, and
eliminating conditions determined to be detrimental to
the efficiency, economy, morale, and reputation of the
Army. The Inspector General investigates matters
involving fraud, waste, and abuse.

• Legal Assistance, Staff Judge Advocate, employs
a staff of lawyers and paraprofessionals. They may
provide information or act as counsel in matters of contracts, debts, citizenship, adoption, marital problems,
taxes, wills, or powers of attorney.

• The Organizational Effectiveness Staff Offieer
assists leaders, on request, to improve unit effectiveness
and readiness of total organizational systems affecting
people, processes, and structures. The consultants can
address goal setting, long-range planning, conference
design, problem solving, organizational design, and
· linking of individual performance objectives to organization objectives.

• The Social Work Service provides services dealing
with social problems to include crisis intervention,
family therapy, marital counseling, abortion Qr adoption
referral, financial counseling, and parent or child management assistance.

• The Transportation Officer is a source of information, advice, and counseling for service members and
families regarding permanent change of station travel
and shipment of household goods and privately owned
vehicles.

• The Unit Personnel NCO is often located in the
battalion Personnel and Administration Center. He is
the soldier's first point of contact with the personnel
support system, · from assignments to welfare services
for soldiers and family members.
92

,

Gulde for Obtaining Information and Aaiatance
This chart shows some of the staff officers and support
agencies who can help you with advice and assistance in
your personal affairs. IN ALL CASES, YOU SHOULD FIRST
CONTACT THE RIGHT PERSON IN YOUR CHAIN OF COM·
MAND for guidance: your immediate supervisor, squad
leader, first sergeant or unit CO. It is their job to help you
or get you the right office for help.

·
f21 · Other
contacts as
applicable.

NOTE: L~ Primary (key) contact

APPEALS
ASSIGNMENT, REASSIGNMENT, MOS &
PROFICIENCY PAY

l

1

2

.~·I

REENLISTMENT

.J

I

PERSONNEL MATTERS: PROMOTION, REDUCTION,
DISCHARGE, RETIREMENT
VETERAN'S BENEFITS

1

1

2

2

COMPLAINTS (REQUESTS FOR ASSISTANCE)

.•

2

I

2' ~

2 :'.~

DEBTS AND CIVILIAN CREDITORS

1

1

2

2

DEPENDENTS' SCHOOLS

·~

1

FAMILY AND RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS

1

2

2

.J 2 ~ 2 ~

2

2

1

2

2

:i! ~
U

_E-NT_o_F_PO~V--~'l......___.~~1-......-.
•.......-+~11t-A-""~!+......
2 '
2 •

_RA
_v_E
_L _oF_ D
_E-PE_N_GOODS
D-EN-TS_. _sH_l_
P..
AND
HOUSEHOLD
...T
MEDICAL SERVICE (INDIVIDUAL & DEPENDENTS)

l-PA_Y_A_u_ow
_A_N_cE_s_A_ND__
IN_CE_N_Tl_VE_ P
_A_Y______
LEAVES AND PASSES

1

1

1

r!I !'ii

~'6"'"""'_2......~,i--.....1......-+~~li4-·........
1

2

1-t-

r_...

f

INSURANCE, ALL TYPES (SGLI & COMMERCIAL)
••
1 r •
•
2 .. Iii
II;.""
pi.al
....._~~~~~~~~~....-..+-.-+-+-+.......-+--t-..,._.....
;..m-.--+-~
LEGAL ASSISTANCE, INCLUDING U.S. AND FOREIGN
LAW, WILLS AND POWERS OF ATTORNEY

1

1

MILITARY EDUCATION

1

2

NONMILITARY EDUCATION

1

2

I

l\
,,_

....

n

-

2

.......-1-P!'"l-+-B--il-+-9-+---tll..,_
·t
.~
'~
•-.. l""W
_

1----~~~~~~--+-.+-1
PX, COllllSSARY, CM SALES STORE
1

,J

GOVERNMENT QUARTERS, OFF POST HOUSING

1

2

REGISTRATION/OPERATION OF PRIVATELY OWNED
VEHICLE (POV), REGISTRATION OF fl'REARMS

11f

ENTRY INTO USA, PASSPORT, VISA,
NATURALIZATION, IMMIGRATION, BIRTH
CERTIFICATE (Children born in forei1n country)

1

2

41;

2 t:

HOME CONDITIONS ANO EMERGENCY LEAVE
EMERGENCY FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

1

,,do•

11,.•

l

-.

• I

2

1
•

2

.
1

2

2

2

~_AL_s_E_n_ic_E________________~··-~.............- ......
· - +- .........~~~-.......
~ .......-~~............1.....
~_~

...PO
__

DRUG AND ALCOHOL REHABILITATION PROGRAM

1

2

l

n98

94

APPENDIX D

Written Records (Examples)
This appendix contains examples of outlines that
units may develop for keeping written records of counseling on professional development, performance, or
reception and integration.
....

r

Professional Development Planning Worksheet
.,,.

....

NAME
YRS OF SERVICE
CIVILIAN EDUCATION

RANK
DOR

SQT
MOS
GT SCORE _ _ HEIGHT _ _ WEIGHT
DATE

I

PHASES OF
DEVELOPMENT

· CALENDAR
VEAR

ACTUAL
ASSIGNMENTS

GOALS

DID YOU ACHIEVE YOUR
GOALS? HOW WELL? (LIST
EERS, AWARDS, PROMO·
TIONS, LETIERS, OTHER)

PERSONAL
E-4

PROFESSIONAL
PERSONAL

E-5

I

PROFESSIONAL
PERSONAL
'

I

E-6

PROFESSIONAL

'
'

PERSONAL
E-7

I

PROFESSIONAL
PERSONAL

E-8

PROFESSIONAL
PERSONAL

E-9

PROFESSIONAL

1

REMARKS

95

Appendix D

PERFORMANCE COUNSELING
1.

Reference FM 22-101, Leadership Counseling.

2. The Performance Counseling requirement contained below will be accomplished 90 days after an individual's
assignment to a unit or new duty position within a unit amd every 90 days thereafter. The completed form will
be maintained by the rater until the rated soldier is no longer under the rater's ,supervision. The counseling will
be performed by the normal rater (direct supervisor) or in the case of PVl to SP4, the individual who would
rate that soldier if he or she were in a rateable status (PVl through SP4 are not rated but will be counseled
using this form).
3.

Performance Counseling of:
a.
b.

Name & grade - - - - - - - - - - - - - Date assigned (unit)

c.
d.

Date assigned (new pos) - - - - - - - - - - Date of counseling

o~

e. PMOS/SMOS - - - - - - f. Duty MOS - - - - - - - g. Date last EER - - - - - - -

4.

Significant contributions made by the ratee during the rated period:

5.

Professional and Performance Evaluation:
a. Professional competence (write in negative or positive comments).
( 1) Demonstrates initiative:
(2) Adapts to changes:
(3) Seeks self-improvement:
(4) Performs under pressure:
(5) Attains results:
(6) Displays sound judgment:
(7) Communicates effectively:
(8) Develops subordinates:
(9) Demonstrates technical skills: (SQT score ___ , Most Recent Wpn Qual Date _ _ _ __
(10)

Physical fitness: (Ht

, Wt

, Last APRT Score

b. Professional standards (write in negative or positive comments).
( 1) Integrity:
(2) Loyalty:
(3) Moral courage:
(4) Self-discipline:
(5) Military appearance:

96

& Date _......;.___

RECEPTION AND INTEGRATION COUNSELING
1.

Reference FM 22-101, Leadership Counseling.

2. The Reception and Integration Counseling requirement contained below will be accomplished on a one-time
basis within 10 duty days of an individual's assignment to a unit or new position within a unit and will be
maintained by the rater until the rated soldier is no longer under that rater's supervision. This counseling will
be performed by the normal rater (direct supervisor) or in the case of PVl to SP4, the individual who would
rate that soldier if he or she were in a rateable status (PVl through SP4 are not rated but will be counseled
using this form).

3. Performance Evaluation of:
a.
b.
c.

Name & grade - - - - - - - - - - - - - Date assigned (unit)
OR
Date assigned (new pos) - - - - - - - - - - Date of counseling

4.

Job description:

5.

Most significant duties and responsibilities:

e.
f.
g.

PMOS/SMOS - - - - - - Duty MOS - - - - - - - Date last EER _ _ _ _ _ __

6. The following areas will be discussed/explained by the rater as it pertains to the soldier being counseled.
The soldier being counseled will initial each area indicating that the subject was discussed. Written comments
are not required in 6 (a) through (I) below.
(a) Standards of the unit.
(b) Chain of command.
(c) NCO channel (who and how used).
(d) On and off duty conduct.
(e) Personnel/personal affairs/initial clothing shakedown.
(f) Unit history, organization, and mission.
(g) Soldier programs of unit, i.e., soldier of the
month/quarter/year, Sergeant Morales Club, etc.
(h) Off limits/danger areas.
(i) Functions and locations of assistance agencies,
AER, ACS, Legal Assistance, Red Cross, IG, etc.
(j) On and off post recreational, educational,
cultural, and historical opportunities.
(k) Host nation orientation.
(I) Other areas the individual should be aware of,
as determined by the rater.
7. Any comments the counseled soldier desires to include in writing upon conclusion of the counseling session. (please print.)
SUBORDINATE/RATEE SIGNATURE

DATE

SUPERVISOR/RATER SIGNATURE

DATE

97

Appendix D

NCO PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES

This worksheet should be jointly prepared by the noncommissioned officer and his or her rater. It will
enhance accomplishment of the organization's mission by determining specific tasks and clarifying shared responsibilities.

1.

Identification:
a. Name _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
b.

Grade _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

c.

Date assigned to position

d.

PMOS/SMOS _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

e. Duty M O S - - - - - - - - - - - f. Principal duty title

2.

Description of duties:
State the significant duties and responsibilities of your position as they appear on the EER and any additional
duties.

3.

Description of contributions to mission accomplishment:
List important tasks and performance standards. State the objectives that you will work toward that will
contribute to the unit's mission. Include any objectives for personal development and professional growth. Where
possible, list specific steps to accomplish each objective.

4.
Signature of rated NCO

98

Date

Signature of rater

Date

APPENDIX E

Counseling Guidelines
This appendix contains information or guidelines useful to leaders as they carry out their counseling responsibilities. It provides things to think about
or do before, during, and after a counseling session.

ACTION-ORIENTED GUIDELINES
The following guidelines pertain to most types of
counseling:
• Personal relationship. Establish a relationship of
trust, care, and concern with the soldier.
• Current behavior. Focus on specific actions rather
than feelings. It is easier to change what soldiers do
rather than how they feel.
•Present time. Focus on the here and now. The past
cannot be changed, the future can be influenced.
• Judgment. Cause each individual to judge his own
behavior and determine what he is doing to contribute
to a problem or to prevent success.
• Planning. Ensure plans are made to cause improvement and not just change. There must be a goal of
success.
• Commitment. Ensure the plan is carried out. Only
then is it meaningful. The plan must have an outcome
to which the soldier feels committed.
•No excuses. Do not be concerned with justifying the
reasons if part of the plan is undesirable or if the plan
fails to work. M-ake a new plan or modify the old one
and continue.
• Reward. Encourage soldiers to work for reward,
satisfaction, and accomplishment rather than to avoid
punishment or unpleasant consequences. Avoiding
punishment seldom works when the source of authority is not present.
99

Appendix E - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

GUIDELINES TO IMPROVE
COUNSELING
To improve counseling abilities, leaders should continually practice the following:
• Determine the soldier's role in the situation. What
has he done to resolve problems or improve performance?
• Avoid drawing conclusions which seem to follow
from a statement by the soldier.
• Try to understand what the soldier is saying and
feeling.
• When asking questions, be sure the information is
needed.
• Keep conversation open-ended. Don't cut off or interrupt the soldier.
• Don't feel you have to save people from hurting.
• Don't be judgmental.
• Encourage the soldier to take the initiative and say
what he wants to say.
•. Do not interrogate.
• Keep your own personal experiences out of the counseling situation unless you believe they will really help.
• Don't do all the talking; remember, it is the soldier
who has the problem.
• If necessary, get a commitment for another- session.

• Do not take sides .
. • Do not confirm the soldier in his prejudices.
• Keep your mind alert.
• Help the counselee help himself.
100

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Appendix E

PLANNED COUNSELING GUIDELINES
Following are steps to take before, during, and after
the counseling session:

BEFORE
-Step 1. Identify soldiers who need counseling.
Step 2. Schedule counseling session.
• Plan for a half hour.
• Recognize that a personal counseling session may take
more time than a performance counseling session and
may require outside help.
• Select appropriate date and time-ensure both leader
and soldier are available.

Step 8. Select appropriate site.
• Provide for privacy.
• A void distractions and interruptions.
Step 4. Notify soldier.
• Normally notify through chain of command..
• Inform as to time, place, scheduled length, and purpose.
Step 6. Organize collected information to be used during the counseling session.
• Develop a general outline of topics to discuss.
• Outline a general plan for conduct of the session.
Step 6. Identify capabilities and limitations of counselor and situation.
Step 7. Select appropriate counseling approach and
techniques. Be prepared to change approach and techniques during the counseling session.
Step 8. Review referral agency responsibilities, functions,
capabilities, and limitations for personal counseling
situations.
101

Appendix E - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

DURING
Step 1. Establish rapport.
• Create a relaxed, open atmosphere conducive to twoway communication.
• Relieve nervousness and tension.
• Display sincere interest in the soldier's concerns.
Step 2. State purpose or objective of counseling session.
Step 8. Develop counseling session.
• Obtain the soldier's views and clarify .the situation.
• Praise improvements and accomplishments.
• Practice listening and watching.
• Observe and recognize soldier's nonverbal responses.
• Modify time allocated as counseling session develops.
• Determine desired objectives and courses of action.
~ Develop a plan to achieve success.
• Schedule additional sessions as required.

Step 4. Identify follow-up action.
Step 6. Ensure session is complete.
Step 6. Close counseling session tactfully-avoid bringing
up any new or previously discussed items.

AFrER
Step 1. Make referral to appropriate agency as required.
Step 2. Follow up to ensure necessary action is being
or has been taken and to monitor the soldier's progress.
Step 8. Inform chain of command of the results of
counseling session as appropriate.
Step 4. Maintain confidentiality as appropriate.
Step 6. Continue to evaluate the situation to ensure a
desired outcome is achieved.
Step 6. Recognize positive results. Reward and encourage continued improvements.
Step 7. Correct poor results. Reschedule addition~al session to determine other ways to overcome difficulties
or different plans of action.
102

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Appendix E

FEEDBACK GUIDELINES.
To encourage feedback, a leader must avoid arguing
his point, defending his position, explaining his ratio~
nale or reasons, or criticizing the giver. Feedback should
be~

• Requested. Feedback must be wanted. It should be
asked for, not imposed. It should be in the hands of
the receiver-he asks for it and then controls how much
of it he gets, its content and its depth.
• Appropriate. Feedback is given for the benefit of
the receiver, but it does not obligate the receiver to
change. The person who receives feedback can accept
or reject the information and use it in any way he
wishes.
• Clear. Feedback is only the perception of the giver.
It is neither right nor wrong. It only expresses his
perception or {eelings at the time it was given.
• Accurate. Since feedback is only the perception of
the giver, both parties may wish to check with others
present for their perceptions of the situation.
• Timely. Feedback is more meaningful when it closely
follows the event. It is very difficult to reconstruct
situations when weeks or even several days have passed.
• Specific. Feedback can be better understood and used
when it is specific rather than general. To be told that
one is "dominating" is not as useful as to be told that
it is the specific behavior, such as talking and not lis·
tening, which makes the receiver seem that way.
• Descriptive. Feedback will be received less defensively
if it describes rather than evaluates. To describe a
person's behavior or to describe one's reaction to it, such
as "I feel my opinion doesn't count when you interrupt
me," is more useful than "You are always interrupting
me."
• Useful and Supportive. Feedback should be useful.
It should be important enough to affect the receiver
and be directed toward behavior which can be changed.
When feedback is too shallow, it's useless, and when
directed toward unchangeable behavior, it only leads

to increased frustration.
108

Appendix E - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

GOAL SETTING GUIDELINES
The following eight steps can be used to determine
and establish performance goals:

Step 1. Review higher level command objectives. What
is the guidance from senior commanders?
• Describe key values.
• State the mission.
• Identify stated goals.
Step 2. Set organizational values. What are the desired
norms and behaviors? How are they exemplified?
• Describe important traits.
• Define expected actions.
Step 8. Establish or revise mission statement. What
should the unit be doing? What is the ultimate function?
• Broadly describe all fudctions.
• Orient on future accomplishments.
Step 4. Set organizational goals. How is each part of
the mission statement accomplished?
• Describe between three and seven specific and resultsoriented elements that get the mission accomplished.
Step 5. Set organizational objectives. What is the
measurable result of each goal?
• Describe what things will be like when the objective
is reached.
Step 6. Identify required resources. What is needed to
accomplish each objective? What is available for each
objective and the total mission?
• Compare what is available and required.
• Request additional resources if needed.
• Realign resources to match priorities.
Step 7. Identify individual tasks and responsibilities.
What does each team member contribute to the total
organization's objectives?
• Break down objectives into specific tasks.
• Define individual roles.
• Establish performance objectives and standards.
Step 8. Publish the results. Keep seniors informed on
the direction of the organization and ensure subordinates
understand the overall goals, objectives, mission, and
values.
1

104

APPENDIX F

Lesson Outlines for
Counseling Training
This appendix contains information that can be used
to structure unit training in leadership counseling. It
includes outlines for performance, personal, and discipline counseling. As with any training or professional
development activity, the instruction must meet the
student's needs and be presented at the right level for
the student's experience and education. This requires
assessing the participant's knowledge and abilities. Long
lectures, even by a knowledgeable instructor, do little
to develop students'. abilities. Leadership skills are best
learned by doing them-not by listening to someone talk
about them.
Effective counseling training programs require students to read portions of this manual or other references
before class, participate in structured class or group
discussions, and apply the skills and techniques in
role-playing exercises. For training to be effective, students must first acquire knowledge and then be provided
the opportunity to apply it in practice. The material in
appendix G can be used for practical exercises in support of structured training.

LESSO.N OUTLINE 1
TITLE: Performance Counseling
LESSON OBJECTIVES
1. To provide students with techniques that can be used
to assess a soldier's performance.
2. To provide students with skills that can be used to
maintain and improve soldier performance.
106

Appendix F - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
1. Task: Discuss the purpose of performance counseling and explain the leader's role as a counselor.
Condition: In a classroom or field environment,
given reference material.
Standard: DiscuE1sion will reference the following
points:
a. Reinforcing effective behavior.
b. Praising and recognizing improvement or accomplishment.
c. Improving performance.
d. Teaching and coaching soldiers in their duties.
e. Motivating soldiers and building teamwork.
2. Task Recognize, understand, and apply the approaches
and skills of performance counseling.
Condition: In a classroom or field environment,
given reference material.
Standard: Discussion and explanation will include
the following:
a. Approaches to counseling.
b. Spot corrections and scheduled sessions.
c. Observed behavior, not emotion.
d. Standards and future success.
3. Task: Demonstrate the techniques of effective performance counseling.
·
Condition: Given reference material and notes in
a practical exercise involving role playing.
Standard: Student's conduct of counseling will
exhibita. Positive reinforcement.
b. Evaluation of actions.
c. Clear guidance and goals.
d. Steps to improve or maintain performance.

MEDIA AND EQUIPMENT: None.
REFERENCES: FM 22-100, Military Leadership.
FM 22-101, Leadership Counseling.
~

106

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ' - - - - - - AppendiX F

METHOD: Lecture/Discussion and Role Play.
LESSON OUTLINE
I.

Introduction.

Leaders as Performance Counselors.
A. Definition of performance counseling.
B. Purpose of counseling.
1. Builds teamwork.
2. Shows that leader cares.
3. Lets soldiers know where they stand.
4. Allows leader to tell subordinates how they
are doing and to determine how they can
improve.
5. Recognizes improvement and accomplishment.
C. Responsibility to counsel.
III. Skills and Techniques.
A. Approaches to counseling.
B. Credibility and expert power.
C. Observed actions, not emotion or intent.
D. Description of behavior in relation to standards.
E. Specific accomplishments and strengths ..
F. Development of success-oriented performance ·
objectives or a plan to meet established standards.
1. Clarify standard.
2. Determine what, by when, how well.
G. Coaching, encouraging, and providing feedback.
H. Recognition for progress.
II.

IV. Performance Counseling Role Play.
A. Conduct role-play exercise.
B. Observe and provide feedback.
C. Evaluate observers' presentation.
V. Conclusion.
107

·Appendix F - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

LESSON OUTLINE 2
TITLE: Personal Counseling
LESSON OBJECTIVES
1. To provide students with the knowledge necessary
to help soldiers solve their personal problems.
2. To provide students with the communication skills
necessary to identify and counsel soldiers with personal pro bl ems.
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
1. Task: Discuss the purpose of personal counseling
and explain the leader's role as a counselor.
Condition: In a classroom or field environment,
given reference material.
Standard: Discussion will reference the following
points:
a. Reinforcing the importance of the soldier.
b. Developing responsible, self-reliant subordinates.
c. Assisting soldiers to solve their own problems.
d. Recognizing limitations of leaders.
2.

Task: Recognize and understand the skills and
techniques of effective personal counseling.
Condition: In a classroom or field environment,
given reference material.
Standard: Discussion and explanation will addressa. Proper atmosphere or setting.
b. Active listening skills.
c. Clarification and identification of problems.
d. Structured problem solving.
e. Planning for a positive outcome.

3. Task: Demonstrate the techniques of effective personal counseling.
Condition: Given reference material and notes in
a practical exercise involving role playing.
108

Standard: Student's conduct of counseling exercise
will exhibita. Active listening.
b. Responding skills.
c. Guiding skills.
d. Concern for the soldier.
MEDIA ·AND EQUIPMENT: None.
REFERENCES: FM 22-100, Military Leadership.
FM 22-101, Leadership Counseling.
METHOD: Lecture/Discussion and Role Play.
LESSON OUTLINE
I.
Introduction.
II. Leaders as Personal Counselors.
A. Definition of personal counseling.
B. Purpose of personal counseling.
1. Helps soldiers to solve own problems.
2. Develops responsibility and self-reliance.
3. Reinforces importance of the soldier.
4. Demonstrates caring leadership.
C. Responsibilities of leaders.
1. · Limitations and capabilities.
2. Concern for entire unit.
3. Outside support agencies.
III. Skills and Techniques.
A. Establish desired atmosphere.
B. Practice actjve listening.
C. Respond to; encourage, and understand soldiers.
D. Explain problem solving.
1. Identify.
2. Clarify.
3. Structure.
4. Prioritize.
109

Appendix F ---~-----------------------

IV.

V.

E. Plan for future success.
F. Follow up on actions.
Personal Counseling Role Play.
A. Conduct role-play .exercise.
B. Observe and provide feedback.
C. Identify nonverbal communication or body
language differences.
Conclusion.

LESSON OUTLINE 3
TITLE: Discipline Counseling
LESSON OBJECTIVES
To provide students with an approach for dealing
with soldiers who have violated a regulation or are .
not meeting minimum standards.

LEARNING OBJECTIVES
1.

Task: Discuss the purpose of discipline counseling
and explain the leader's responsibility.
Condition: In a classroom or field environment,
given reference material.

Standard: Discussion will address the following:
a. Violations of rules, policy, or regulations.
b. Failure to respond to previous counseling on
meeting standards.
c. Lack of progress or improvement.
d. Goals of changed behavior and improved performance.
2.

Task: Determine the appropriate approach and
corrective measures for counseling soldiers on disciplinary matters.

Condition: Given reference ,material in a classroom
or field environment.

110

- - - - ' - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - · A p p e n d i x .F

Standard: Selection will addressa. Private location and chain of command.
b. Emphasis on standards and observed performance.
c. Clarification of soldier expectations.
d. Corrective action to change behavior.
e. Extra training.

MEDIA AND EQUIPMENT: None.
REFERENCES: FM 22-100, Military Leadership.
FM 22-101, Leadership Counseling.
FM 27-1, Legal Guide for Commanders, Chapter 8.
AR 600-20, Army Command Policy
and Procedures, Chapters 2 and 4.
METHOD: Lecture/Discussion.
LESSON OUTLINE
I.
II.

Introduction.
Counseling Soldiers On Disciplinary Matters.
A. . Reasons for discipline counseling.
1. Violations of rules and regulations.
2. Failure to show progress or to demonstrate
efforts to improve.
3. Unresponsiveness to positive performance
counseling.

B. Purpose of discipline counseling.
1. To maintain unit standards.
2. To improve performance and conduct to
desired levels.
III. Taking Corrective Action.
A. Select approach to discipline counseling.
B. Clarify required standards.
C. Provide feedback on performance shortfall.
D. Listen to response.

111

Appendix F - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

E. Determine appropriate action.
1. Referral to commander for punishment.
2. Administrative measures.
3. Admonishment or verbal. reprimand.
4. Corrective training.
F. Implement and follow up.
1. Acknowledge improvement.
2. Model desired behavior or proficiency.
3. Inform chain of command.
IV. Role-Playing Discipline Counseling.
A. Conduct role-play exercise.
B. Observe and provide feedback.
C. Explore alternate approaches.
V. Conclusion.

112

APPENDIX G

Role-Playing Exercises
This appendix contains role-playing situations and
instructions that leaders can use to practice and improve
counseling skills and techniques. These situations can
also be used as practical exercises in military counseling instruction.
All of the situations require two students: one as
the leader or counselor and one as the soldier to be
counseled. At least one other person is needed to evaluate and critique the counseling session. When used as
a class exercise, the leader and the soldier role play
the exercise while the remainder of the class ·observes
and evaJuates. The counselee should also provide his
own perceptions at the conclusion of the counseling
session.
Participants must carefully read their assigned roles
so that they can play their roles naturally. The counselor should use the narrative of the case as· a starting
point and then conduct the session based on what the
soldier provides both verbally and nonverbally. The
counselee should read the role-playing instructions and
the narrative for the role. The counselee information
sheets will describe how to behave initially; then the
soldier must respond to the counselor.

ROLE-PLAYING INSTRUCTIONS
COUNSELOR INSTRUCTIONS
You will be required to play certain leadership roles
in dealing with subordinates. A brief overview of the
situation is provided as a starting point. Not all
information is provided. You must apply the skills of
counseling to assist the counselee and fulfill your
responsibilities as a leader. Advance preparation will
not enable you to anticipate every possible situation.
You should attempt to remain objective in your approach
and in control of the session. This is an opportunity
for you to try different techniques or to apply something you may have just learned.
118

Appendix G

COUNSELEE INSTRUCTIONS
You will be required to play certain roles and to make
the situations as realistic as possible. Role playing
involves interacting with people. in various artificial
situations. It is a way of giving and receiving feedback.
It is not like "acting" in the usual sense because there
is no "script" -you make up your own .words as you
go along. They must, however, support the basic facts
of your given role. Accept the facts as given; assume
the attitude and feelings supplied in your specific role.
You must reflect these attitudes and feelings openly.
From this point on, allow the following rules to guide
your actions:
• Let your behavior and attitude change with the events
as they occur in the discussion.
• Change your behavior as you might do if you were
really in the same situation.
• If necessary, react to the leader's behavior in an

exaggerated manner in order for him to get the message.
• When facts or events arise that are not covered by
the given roles, make up things that are consistent with
the way it might be in real-life situations.
• In situations where the real cause of the problem is
not readily apparent, do not reveal the cause too quickly.
Make the counselor develop the information .by asking
the proper questions.

OBSERVER INSTRUCTIONS
The observer has a key position in the role-playing
exercise. During the exercise, the observer must watch
and listen to both participants. Specific actions and
behaviors should be noted. Examples of effective questions or comments are needed to reinforce appropriate
actions. Areas that need improvement or extra emphasis should also be noted with specific examples.

1.14

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Appendix G

The observer's checklist that follows has questions
you can ask yourself when observing and evaluating
the counseling session:
• How did the counselor open the interview?
• How did he close it?
• Were these two persons trying to help each other, or
were they opposing each other?
• What kind of relationship did the counselor try to
establish in the interview?
• Did the atmosphere of the interview change at any
point?
• Did it become more or less comfortable, or strained?
Why?
• What feeling could you detect in the counselor?
• What feeling could you detect in the soldier?
• Did the counselor try to satisfy the needs of the soldier
or the needs of the counselor?
• Did the counselor make the soldier feel relaxed and
comfortable?
• Did the counselor really listen?
• Did the counselor really try to understand what the
soldier said and felt?
• If you had been the soldier, how would you have
responded to the counselor's behavior?
• Did the counselor reveal any bias or prejudice?
• Did the counselor respect the right of the soldier to
be himself?
• Did the counselor present any information?
• Who did the most talking, the counselor or soldier?
• Did the two agree on any future action?
. The participant in the counselor's role depends on
objective and unbiased feedback to improve his counseling skills and techniques. The observer's comments

115

Appendix G

must be given tactfully so that the counselor will not
be offended and refuse to accept them. For this reason,
the observer should report on specific actions and
statements rather than make personal judgments about
being good or bad. Even the use of the words "good"
and "bad" should be avoided. The following is an
example of some unbiased observer
feedback.
\
"Your opening remarks and casual questions relaxed
the soldier. They established an open exchange and the
soldier began to volunteer information. I· was concerned
that by your taking a lot of notes while the soldier
was talking, you lost eye contact. The soldier was not
as open or detailed in his information when you were
writing."
An example of improper comments that are not very
useful and may put the leader on the defensive is: "Your
opening was good, but then you didn't pay attention
to the soldier and you did a poor job of active .listening." You must be specific.
As the role-play exercise observer, you yourself are
practicing the counseling skills of listening and watching. At the same time, you are helping others to develop
and improve their counseling ability.

COUNSELING SITUATIONS
SITUATION 1
Leader. You are Sergeant Locke, a fire-team .leader
assigned to a unit stationed in Germany. You have been .
with the unit six months. Private First Class Chapper
was assigned to your fire team four months ago.
Although the team as a whole has been performing
satisfactorily, Private Chapper has not been performing
up to established standards. During field training
exercises, you have often had to give on-the-spot corrections to him. Additionally, during the past week, his
personal appearance has become worse. Finally, yesterday he was late for formation during an alert exercise. You have decided to counsel Private Chapper. You
have notified him that you want to see him at 1730

today in a private office in the platoon barracks area.
116

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Appendix G

Soldier. You are Private First Class Chapper, an 18year-old rifleman assigned to a unit stationed in Germany. You have been with the unit four months. Before
assignment to Germany, you completed infantry one
station unit training at Fort Benning, Georgia. Since
you did not want to be assigned to an overseas unit,
your attitude toward your job and the Army has changed
considerably. Your attitude about your assignment has
affected your relations with the other members of your
squad. Now they avoid you whenever possible. For the
first time in your life, you have a steady income and
are more concerned with having a good time downtown
than you are with your job. You can do your job, but
you feel that it's not worth the effort.
SITUATION 2
Leader. You are First Sergeant Snell. You are conducti~g a reception and integration interview with
Specialist 4 Gray, a newly assigned soldier. During the
sessions, he informs you that he is recently divorced
and has a three-year-old child. He explains that in his
last assignment he was excused from certain duties, such
as CQ, because he couldn't find a babysitter to look
after his child all night. He indicates that he hopes
you will give him the same consideration.

Soldier. You are Specialist 4 Gray, a soldier who has
been in the Army four years. You have just been reassigned to a new unit and are receiving your reception
and integration counseling from the company first
sergeant. You are recently divorced and have custody
of your three-year-old child. In your previous assignment
you were excused from certain duties, such as CQ,
because you couldn't find a babysitter to stay with your
child all night. You indicate during the counseling
session that you hope again to be excused from certain duties.
NOTE: If the first sergeant says you cannot be excused
from certain duties, react in an emotional or hostile
manner.
117

Appendix G

SITUATION 3
Leader. You are Sergeant First Class White, a platoon
sergeant. During the past few weeks, you have noticed
that performance of duty by Staff Sergeant Beckman,
first squad leader, has declined. The performance of the
first squad during field-training exercises has been
marginal at best. Military courtesy and appearance
within the squad have slipped to below acceptable
standards. On many occasions, Sergeant Beckman has
been seen verbally abusing members of his squad for
no apparent reason. At times, he has been late for work,
appearing groggy and unresponsive. Until recently,
Sergeant Beckman has been an outstanding NCO.
You have discussed this matter with the platoon
leader and have decided to counsel Sergeant Beckman
about both his and his squad's performance.

Soldier. You are Staff Sergeant Beckman, a squad
leader. Sergeant First Class White, the platoon sergeant,
has notified you that he wants to discuss your performance of duty at 1730 today. You recognize that your
recent performance has not been up to par; however,
you have been unable to concentrate on your job because
of problems at home.
About a year ago you suspected, but did not confirm,
that your wife was involved with another man. This
suspicion led to a number of arguments and quarrels
with your wife. At the time you became suspicious of
your wife, you began to drink heavily. The heavy
drinking has reached the point that you "finish off' a
bottle of bourbon every night and have a few "shots"
during the day, when there is an opportunity. Relations
with your spouse are strained, and she is talking about
leaving you if your drinking and arguing do not stop.
NOTE: It is important to the success of this role that
you do not let the real cause of your poor performance
come out too quickly. Make the counselor work hard
before you let him know about your drinking and marital troubles.
118

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Appendix G

SITUATION 4
Leader. You are Lieutenant Taylor. Approximately a
month ago, Private First Class Watkins, during a
counseling session concerning his sloppy appearance and
marginal duty performance, broke down and revealed
that he was using drugs. After revealing his addiction,
he asked for help and was enrolled in a drug rehabilitation program. Last week Private Watkins returned to
his unit after successfully completing the rehabilitation
program. You have heard that Sergeant First Class
Kelley has a very negative attitude toward Private
Watkins. Sergeant Kelley appears to be going out of
. his way to "pick on" the private and blames him for
things over which he has no control. You notify Sergeant Kelley that you wish· to discuss the return of
Private Watkins to the unit.
Soldier. You are Sergeant First Class Kelley. Last week
Private First Class Watkins returned to your unit after
three weeks' absence to undergo drug rehabilitation. You
are very upset that Watkins has returned to the unit
because you feel that addicts and criminals are being
pampered. You feel that Watkins had a vacation at the
rehabilitation center and believe that "once an addict,
always an addict." You believe his return to your unit
will just cause problems with the rest of the men in a
smooth-running organization. You want Lieutenant
· Taylor to transfer Private Watkins to another unit.
SITUATION 5
Leader. You are Staff Sergeant Hawkins, a platoon
sergeant. Yesterday, you received information that
Sergeant Johnson did not perform his assigned duties
up to established standards. During a field. training
exercise, Johnson's squad was uncrating and storing
ammunition in the ammunition supply point. Sergeant
Johnson failed to ensure that the trash and crating
material were properly disposed of, and as a result, a
fire broke out. Prior to this incident, Johnson had performed his duties in an excellent manner. You have
notified him that you wish to speak to him about yesterday's incident.
119

Appendix G

Soldier. You are Sergeant Johnson, squad leader. Your
platoon sergeant has called you into the office to speak
to you about the fire at the ammunition supply point
yesterday. You recognize that you may have been
responsible for the fire. because you did not properly
supervise your men. However, you have had some personal problems, and you can't keep your mind on the
job. Two weeks ago, a Mr. Shick from the Citizens Loan
Company called you about a loan which you co-signed
some 18 months ago. Your brother needed the money
to finish his ·last two semesters in college. At the time,
you thought that helping your brother finish college was
a reasonable thing to do. Since then, however, events
have raised some doubts. For example, when Mr. Shick
called, he told you that the account was three months
in arrears, and he was unable to contact your brother.
He further stated that his company would insist on
immediate redressment of the account.
You managed to get another week's postponement
and tried numerous times, unsuccessfully, to contact your·
brother. You were reluctant to return Mr. Shick's call
because you could not see a solution. You did not tell
your wife about it because she is seven months pregnant
and easily upset. Now the situation is even more grim
because, on the day you were in charge of the ammo
detail, you had to leave early. Your wife had called
you, extremely upset. It seems Mr. Shick had called your
wife and informed her that the remaining balance was
due; and if not cleared immediately, the company would
seize your furniture. Now you are facing a real dilemma.
Your small savings is insufficient to ·cover the debt.
Your budget is already stretched, your parents can't help,
and you can't afford a lawyer.
· ·
NOTE: It is important to the success of this role that
you do not reveal your financial problems until the
counselor asks the proper questions to bring out this
information.
120

------------------.....,-------~Appendix G

SITUATION 6
Leader. You are Sergeant First Class Samuals, Support
Detachment NCOIC. Several soldiers have told you that
Sergeant Blanch, a section sergeant, has been gambling
with other members of the section and has borrowed
several hundred dollars from members of the detachment, including subordinates. Sergeant Blanch performs
his duties in an outstanding manner, and since his
assignment to the unit, there have been no adverse
reports concerning him. You notify Sergeant Blanch that
you wish to counsel him concerning his gambling
activities.
Soldier. You are Sergeant Blanch, section sergeant in
a support detachment. During the past several weeks,
you have joined several poker parties in the barracks,
but your "luck has run out." You have had to pay
unexpected bills recently and have needed a "few dollars" (actually three hundred) to pay household expenses
and to continue playing poker until you win back your
losses. Up to now, you have performed your duties up
to established standards, and your personal affairs have
been in order. You feel that all you need now is some
time ·to ·win back your poker losses and pay off your
debts. But the NCOs who lent you the money are now
pressuring you to pay them back. Some of them even ·
feel that you don't intend to pay them.

SITUATION 7
Leader. You are Captain Jones, Commander, Supply
'

'

'

and Transportation Company, Support Battalion. You
have heard rumors that Lieutenant Rumford, platoon
leader of the supply platoon, has been dating Specialist
5 Anderson, a member of the transportation platoon.
Both Rumford and Anderson are unmarried. You feel
that the relationship, if true, may cause problems within
the unit. In fact, there are indications that military
courtesy. toward Lieutenant Rumford has already declined.
You notify, the lieutenant that you wish to discuss the
problemin your office at 1300 today.
,
NOTE: Role of platoon leader can be male or female.
121

Appendix G

Soldier. You are Lieutenant Rumford, Platoon Leader,
Supply Platoon, Supply and Transportation Company,
Support Battalion. You have been assigned to the unit
for a year. During the past two months, you have
developed a romantic relationship with Specialist 5 ·
Anderson, a member of the transportation platoon. You
enjoy your job and Army life, but you feel that what
you do with your own free or nonduty time is your
business, and the Army has no right to meddle in your
personal affairs. Captain Jones, your immediate supervisor, has notified you that he wants you in his office
at 1300 to discuss your conduct.
SITUATION 8
Leader. You are Lieutenant Roberts, a unit personnel
officer with an additional duty as reenlistment officer.
Specialist 4 Wells is scheduled to see you concerning
reenlistment. You have his. unit personnel records, including a preliminary counseling form completed by his
supervisor. Specialist Wells is a records clerk and has
received outstanding efficiency reports. His reenlistment
counseling record form indicates his desire to get a
college degree through a combination of correspondence
courses and attendance at a local community college.
He also desires to go to OCS. His personnel records
show high aptitude test scores, but his physical profile
indicates a possible inability to pass the physical
requirements for OCS.

Soldier. You are Specialist 4 Wells, a records clerk who
is coming up for reenlistment. You enjoy your job and
Army life in general and feel that you can make a
career out of it. You are both enrolled in correspondence
courses and attending a local community college to get
a college degree. You feel that you would like to continue your Army career as an officer, and you plan to
apply for OCS. You have been asked to see the reenlistment officer because you are coming to the end of
your first term.
122

SITUATION 9
Leader. You are Master Sergeant Phillips, NCOIC,
Personnel Records Section. Specialist 5 Hampton is in
charge of enlisted records. He has been in the Army
nine years, and in his current assignment, two years.
During these two years, he has generally performed his
duties above the established standards. During the past
three months, however, you have noticed a gradual,
persistent decline in the maintenance of personnel
records. You have made many on-the-spot corrections
when errors or omissions were noted. The frequency and
seriousness of the record errors or omissions have been
gradually increasing.
During the past week, you have observed Hampton
to be groggy and unresponsive and, on one occasion,
asleep at his desk. You decide that more than an on-thespot correction is required, and you notify Specialist
Hampton that you want to counsel him concerning his
performance of duty.
Soldier. You are Specialist 5 Hampton, and you are
in charge of enlisted records in a personnel office. You
have been in the Army nine years, and in your current assignment, two years. You like your present duty
and would like to work until retirement in this career
field. You are married and have two children. Your wife
is dissatisfied with the living conditions you are able
to provide with your current income.
Eight months ago you got a job as a bartender to
increase your income and provide your wife and children
with a few luxuries. Initially, working the extra hours
at night did not affect you or your duty performance.
Recently, however, you have felt sluggish, and your
supervisor has noticed a number of errors and omissions
in the records you maintain. You know your performance is declining, but you feel that you need that
extra money to keep your wife happy. Master Sergeant
Phillips, your supervisor, has called you in for a
counseling session.
123

Appendix G

SITUATION 10
Leader. You are Master Sergeant Lawrence, NCOIC
of a maintenance shop. Sergeant Darby, a section sergeant, spoke with you this morning about Specialist 4
Dixon. Darby stated that, for the past several weeks,
Dixon's performance of duty as a mechanic has been
below established standards. Previously Dixon was one
of the best mechanics in the shop. Sergeant Darby has
made many on-the-spot corrections and, about ten days
ago, conducted a discipline counseling session with
Dixon. Sergeant Darby indicated that Dixon was frequently daydreaming and moody and, in general, inattentive to the task at hand.
Despite the on-the-spot corrections and the counseling
session, Dixon's performance of duty continued to decline.
Sergeant Darby requested that you, Master Sergeant
Lawrence, conduct a counseling session with Dixon. You
notified Specialist Dixon that you wish to discuss his
performance of duty in your office.

Soldier. You are Specialist 4 Dixon, a mechanic in a
maintenance shop. You have been assigned to this unit
for about two years. You are considered to be one of
the best mechanics in the outfit. You enjoy your job,
and your home life has been stable; however, during
the past two months, some unfortunate events have
occurred which bother you day and night. Two months
ago your wife had a miscarriage. Then your car broke
down. You believe you will have to get a new transmission, but you don't have the money. To make matters even worse, your mother needs money to have a
special operation, and you don't know how you will help
her pay the medical bills.
You realize that your problems have affected your
work because you have been chewed out on a number
of occasions by your supervisor, Sergeant Darby. Ten
days ago, Sergeant Darby chewed you out at a
counseling session in his office and he threatened
punishment by the commander. You wanted to explain

124

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Appendix G

your personal problems, but he didn't give you a
chance. At this point you see no way out of your
problems, and you feel there is no sense in trying to
explain your situation to anyone. Master Sergeant
Lawrence, the shop NCOIC, has notified you that he
wants to counsel you on your duty performance.
NOTE: It is important to the success of this role that
you do not reveal your personal problems until the counselor asks the proper questions to bring out this information.

SITUATION 11

Leader. You are Staff Sergeant Holt, lab supervisor at
a hospital in Germany. You have been in Europe a
little over one year. Your family joined you five months
ago after a seven-month wait for government quarters.
When you first arrived, you considered finding economy
housing for your family, but the cost was prohibitive.
You knew also that your wife and kids would be
uncomfortable in the housing you could afford. It would
be away from the military community facilities including the schools and your family doesn't speak German.
Private First Class Travis has been in the command
about three weeks. He is now in your office asking for
the week off so that he can make arrangements to bring
his expectant wife over to join him.
Soldier. You are Private First Class Travis. You have
been in the Army a year. You joined the Army because
you couldn't find a good job when you graduated from
high school. You married your high school sweetheart
right after graduation. The two of you lived on her
earnings from the local steak house while you hunted
for a job •
.You and your wife have not had any contact with
her parents since the day you got married because they
didn't approve of her marrying right after high school.
125

Appendix G

You were stationed in Kansas when the opportunity
to transfer to Germany in a shortage MOS came up.
Since . she was not happy in Kansas, you decided to
take the transfer to Germany. She has been working
in Kansas to save some money for the baby and for
the time when she won't be able to work because of
the baby. She understood that you would have to come
to Germany to get settled before she could come over.
She presently lives in a rented house trailer off post.
She wants to use the money that she has saved for
deposits for lodging and for her plane fare to Germany.
Your baby is due in three months and the doctor won't
let her fly after her seventh month. You have to bring
her over by the end of next week.

126

Glossary
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACS-Army Community Service
AER-Army Emergency Relief
AR-Army regulation
CO-commander
CQ-charge of quarters
DA-Department of the Army
EEK-enlisted evaluation report
EM..;._enlisted member
FM-field manual
ht-height
ID--identification
IG-inspeCtor general
MOS-military occupational specialty
MSG-master sergeant
NCO-noncommissioned officer
NCOIC-noncommissioned officer in charge
OCS~Officer Candidate School
OE~-officer. evaluation report
PFC-private first class
Pl\f OS-primary military occupational specialty
PVl-Private E-1
PX-Army exchange

SQT ~s~rgeant
SFC:...._sergeant first class
SIDPERS-Standard Installation/Division Personnel

System

127

Glossary _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __;__ _ _ __

SMOS-secondary military occupational specialty
SP4-Specialist 4
SP5-Specialist 5
SQT-skill qualification test
SSG-staff sergeant
TEC....:...Training Extension Course
TDY -temporary duty
UCMJ-Uniform Code of Military Justice
wpn qual-weapon qualification
wt-weight

128

References
REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS
Required publications are sources that users must read ·
in order to understand or to comply with FM 22-101.
Field Manual (FM)
22-100
Military Leadership
RELATED PUBLICATIONS
Related publications are sources of additional information. Users do not have to read them to understand
FM 22-101.
Army Regulations (AR)
600-20
Army Command Policy and Procedures
600-85
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and
Control Program
Army Reenlistment Program
601-280
Army Community Service Program
608-1
611-201
Enlisted Career Management Fields and
Military Occupational Specialties
623-105
Officer Evaluation Reporting System
Enlisted Evaluation Reporting System
623-205
635-200
Enlisted Personnel
Army Emergency Relief
930-4
930-5
American National Red Cross Service
Program and Army Utilization
Department of the Army Pamphlets (DA Pam)
621-15
A Soldier's Guide to Education
623-105
The Officer Evaluation Reporting System
"In Brief'

129

Field Manuals (FM)
21-3
22-9
26-2
27-1
100-1

Soldier's Manual of Common. Tasks
(Skill Levels 2, 3, and 4)
Soldier Performance in Continuous
Operations .
Management of Stress in Army Operations
Legal Guide for Commanders
The Army

Training Extension Courses (TEC)
561-161-8001-F
561-161-8002-F
561-161-8003-F
561-161-8004-F
561-161-8005-F
561-161-8006-F
561-161-8007-F
561-161-8008-F
561-161-8009-F
561-161-8010-F

PET: An Overview for Senior Officers
PET: Introduction to Personal
Effectiveness Training
PET: Understanding Feelings
PET: Effective CommunicationsSenders Skills
PET: Effective CommunicationsReceivers Skills
Personality and Behavior Theory Part!
Personality and Behavior Theory Part II
Application of Transactional Analysis
Part III.
Assertiveness Part I
Assertiveness Part II
'

:· ,. ~;~::...

.. .

OTHER PUBLICATIONS
ANCOC Common Core Branch. CM-03: Effective Lis~
tening. Fort Bliss, TX: US Army Sergeants Major
Academy, 1983.
180

-----------------~--------Referen~es

ANCOC Common Core Branch. LHR-08: Personal and
Performance Counseling. Fort Bliss, TX: US Army
Sergeants Major Academy, 1983.
Associates, The Department of Behavioral Sciences and
Leadership. Leadership in Organizations. West Point,
NY: United States Military Academy, 1981.
Ayres, D. D. Monograph #11: The Counseling Function of the Leadership Role. Fort Benjamin Harrison,
-·
IN: US Army Administration Center, 1978.
Brammer, M. The Helping Relationship. Englewood
Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1979.
·Buening, C. R. Communicating On The Job: A Practical Guide for Supervisors. Reading, MA: Ad<;lisonWesley Publishing Co., 1974.
Carkhuff, Robert R. Helping and Human Relations.
New York: Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, 1969.
Chapman, E. N. Put More Leadership Into Your Style.
Chicago: Science Research Associates, 1983. Crocker, Lawrence P. The Army Officers Guide. Harrisburg, PA: Stackpole Books, 1981.
Delaney, Daniel J:, and Sheldon Eisenberg. The C6unseling Process. Chicago: Rand McNally, 1972.
Fast, Julius. Body Language. New York: Pocket Books,
1981.
Fournies, Ferdinand F. Coaching for Improved Work
Pe.rfor:mance_.. N e_w, York: Van. Nostrand Reinhold Co.,
1978.
Hawkins, B. L., and P. Preston. Managerial Communications. Santa Monica, CA: Goodyear Publishing Co.,
1981.
Hersey, P., and K. H. Blanchard. Management of
Organizational Behavior: Utilizing Human .Resources.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1977.

181

Hill, N.C. Counseling at the Workplace. New York:
McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1981.
Inter-University Seminar on Armed Forces and Society.
Families in the Military System. Beverly Hills, CA:
Sage Publications, 1976.
Lefton, Robert. Improving Productivity Through People
Skills. Cambridge, MA: Ballinger Publications, 1981.
Office of Military Leadership, United States Military
Academy. A Study of Organizational Leadership. Harrisburg, PA: Stackpole Books, 1976.

182

Index

Active listening, 30 thru 32, 79
Adjutant General, 48, 89
Advising, 16
Alcohol and Drug Control Officer, 48,
89
American Red Cross, 48, 89
Approaches to counseling, 17 thru 28
combined, 17, 25 thru 28
advantages of, 28 (chart)
disadvantages of, 28 (chart)
example of, 26, 27
directive, 17 thru 21
advantages of, 28 (chart)
disadvantages of, 19, 28 (chart)
example of, 20
nondirective, 17, 21 thru 25
advantages of, 28 (chart)
disadvantages of, 28 (chart)
example of, 22 thru 24
Argue, 66, 68
Army Community Service, 48, 89
Army Education Center, 48, 90
Army Emergency Relief, 48, 90
Attitude, 12
defensive, 21
Attributes, be, know, do, 3
Be. See Attributes, be, know, do
Bias, 67
Career counseling, 52 thru 54
Career counselor, 48, 90

Chain of command
disciplinary actions by, 50
follow-up information, 102
notify through, 58, 101
reasons for using, 47
referral to, 8
report to, 14
Chaplain, 48, 90
Claims Section, 48, 90
Combined approach. See Approaches to
counseling, combined
Commanding, 16
Communication, 13, 29 thru 32, 57, 59,
62, 79 thru 85, 88
nonverbal, 30, 31
silence, 30, 80, 81
verbal, 30
active listening, 79, 80
general leads, BO
reflective statements, 79
Community Counseling Center, 48, 91
Community Health Nurse, 48, 91
Community Mental Health Service, 48,
91
Confidentiality in counseling, 102
discuss degree of, 61
limitations on, 14
Cooperation, 65
Corrective training, 50, 51, 52

133

Index

Counselee
role-playing instruction, 114
Counseling
preparation for, 58 thru 61
purpose of, 2, 13
training, 71 thru 77, 105 thru 112
Counseling approaches. See Approaches
to counseling
Counseling session
atmosphere of, 24, 59 thru 61, 102
closing, 62, 102
discussion, 62
guidelines for, 99 thru 102
length of, 59, 101
opening, 61
outline, 60, 101
structuring of, 21
Counseling situations
career and reenlistment, 52 thru 54
disciplinary, 49, 50
lesson outline, 110 thru 112
performance, 42 thru 45
lesson outline, 105 thru 107
personal, 45 thru 49
lesson outline, 108 thru 110
reception and integration, 38 .thru 42
follow up, 41
objective of, 39, 40, 54
Counseling skills, 29 thru 36
guiding, 33 thru 36, 84, 85
listening and watching, 29 thru 32, 79
thru 81
responding, 32, 33, 79, 81 thru 84
Counselor
as listener, 22, 25, 30, 31
role-play instruction, 113
DA Fonn 67-8-1, 43

184

Development
of counseling ability, 72, 73
of soldier, 6, 7
Directive counseling. See Approaches to
counseling, directive
Disagreement, 65
Discipline counseling. See Counseling
situation, disciplinary
Do. See Attributes, be, know, do
Equal Opportunity Staff Office, 49, 91
Evaluating counseling ability, 74, 75
Eye contact, 30
Facial expressions, 30
Feedback
in counseling training, 74, 75
in performance counseling, 42, 54
in role playing, 75 thru 77, 114
in unit counseling programs, 57
thru leader evaluation, 75
thru peer evaluation, 74
Finance and Accounting Office, 49, 91
FM 22-100, i, 57, 77
FM 100-1, i
Follow-up, 63, 64
chain of command and, 63
continuing evaluation and, 63
improper, 69
on completion of counseling, 10
outside agencies and, 63
recognizing positive results, 63
thru corrective action, 63
thru written records, 63
to personal counseling, 54
to reception and integration counseling,
41
Goal setting, 104
Guiding. See Counseling skills, guiding

Halo effect, 67
Head nod, 30
Housing Referral Officer, 49, 91
I message, 83, 84
Influence, forms of, 16, 17
.advising, 16
commanding, 16
mapping alternatives, 16
persuading, 16
punishing, 17
recommending, 16
urging, 16
Informing, 33, 82 thru 83
Inspector general, 49, 92
Interpreting, 33, 82
Junior officer
counseling responsibilities, 9
Know. See Attributes, be, know, do
Leader
ethics, 13
evaluation, 75
limitations, 13, 47, 69
power
coercive, 14, 15
expert, 15
legitimate, 14
referent, 15
reward, 14
respect
for soldiers, 13
of soldiers, 4, 15
responsibility
for counseling, 2, 7 thru 10
for counseling training, 73
set the example, 4, 13
Leadership principles, i, 3

Legal assistance, 49, 92
Lesson outlines
performance counseling, 105 thru 107
personal counse'ling, 108 thru 110
discipline counseling, 110 thru 112
Limitations in counseling. See Leader,
limitations
Listening and watching. See
Counseling skills, listening and
watching
Mapping alternative, 16
Motivation, 13, 42
NCO counseling responsibilities, 8, 9
Nervousness, 65
N ondirective counseling. See
Approaches to counseling, nondirective
Notification of counseling
thru chain of command, 58, 101
OER Support Form, 43, 87, 88
Observer
checklist, 115, 116
in role play, 76
role-play instruction, 113 thru 116
On-the-job experience, 73
Organizational effectiveness staff
officer, 92
Outside agencies
for counseling, 47 thru 49, 89 thru 92
referral to, 13, 46, 4 7, 62, 66
Peer evaluation, 74, 75, 77
Performance counseling. See·
Counseling situations, performance
Personal counseling. See Counseling
situations, personal
Personal problems, 45 thru 49
Persuading, 16
Posture, 30

135

Index

Power. See Leader power
Praise, 5, 6, 8 thru 10, 44, 102
Principles of leadership. See
Leadership principles
Problem solving
process, 21, 25, 33 thru 35, 62
seven steps of, 34, 35
Professional Army ethic, i, 3
Professional development. See
Counseling situations, career and
reenlistment
Proficiency
tactical, 3, 15
technical,. 3, 15
Punishing, 17
Questioning, 32, 33, 81
Reaction to counseling, 65 thru 67
negative, 65 thru 67
positive, 65
Reception and integration counseling.
See Counseling situations, reception and
integration
Recommending, 16
Records
for career counseling, 64
for discipline counseling, 64
written, 63, 64
Reenlistment counseling. See
Counseling situations, career and
reenlistment
Referral
to outside agency(ies). See Outside
agencies
Reflective statements, 79
Responding. See Counseling skills,
responding
Reward, 6, 14, 99
Role model, 73, 77

136
tr U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE:1992-311-831/44553

Role playing, 73, 75 thru 77, 113 thru
126
instructions, 76, 113 thru 116
situations, 116 thru 126
Self-control, 68
loss of, 68
Self-improvement, 3, 73
. Shift blame, 66
Silence, 30, 80, 81
reasons for, 80
to break, 81
Social Work Service, 49, 92
Soldier
concern for, 12, 13
development, 6, 7, 42, 43, 52
well-being of, 3, 13, 40
Sponsor, 41, 42
Standards
set the, 38, 40
Stereotyping, 68
Structuring counseling, 21, 43
Substandard performance, 42, 49, 50,
52
Summarizing, 33
Tactical proficiency. See Proficiency,
tactical
Technical proficiency. See Proficiency,
technical
Temper, loss of, 66, 67
Transportation officer, 92
Unit personnel NCO, 92
Unit readiness, 39
Urging, 16
Values, 67
Verbal behavior, 30
Well-being of soldiers, 3, 13, 40
Written records. See Records, written

FM 22-101
3 JUNE 1985

By Order of the Secretary of the Army:

JOHN A. WICKHAM, JR.
General United States Army
Chief of Staff

Official:

DONALD J. DELANDRO
Brigadier General United States Army
The Adjutant General

DISTRIBUTION:
Active Army, ARNG, and USAR: To be distributed in accordance with DA Form 12-11 A Requirements for Leadership Counseling (Qty rqr block no. 468).
Additional copies may be requisitioned from the US Army Adjutant General Publications Center,
2800 Eastern Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21220-2896.

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
~.urn.M UMITm ITA TD"""' 1'IAW .uiD DOC:TllllC

CO"M._

PO«t llilOWllOC. ~ D t l - -

.

-.,
,,,..,,,_.
1 3 S:.P 1~

ATIM-SP (25)

MEMORANDUM FOR Commander, o.s. Army Publications a.nd Printing
Command, ATTNa ASQZ-.P D, 2461 Bisenhower Avenue,
Alexandria, VA 22331-0302
SUBJECT: ~.lr~al.-~~aJJ!.~CJO~~!~a.~~e~(~l_.:with
Res tr
· ... -icteq])~WutIO"n;ltatemelita
- -·- ... -- -

-

~

1. Field manuals listed at gJl_qAO~~e have been reviewed by the
respective proponents. Re,!_tncf!!:'L...~e~ibutio~,.,f1;Atementa:
sJIQald. Q89';h•ng*.to-.Sta~emrn~A~proV~r.pW>li~~A4~,

d.istribill.2nJ..1t _~~VmJ.t~.• ~--Putu.re. ..reprints aho~ld -~ .rel~ed
vitllth4_unl!iiiI£ed.diat-sJ.hution statement.
2. Reco.mmend the next change to DA Pam 25-30, Consolidated Index
of Army Publications and Blank Forms, delete footnote code 09 for
these publicat.iona. In addition, request publications be made
available to National Technical Information Service (NTIS).
3.

Enclosure
is lis t-e.xtrac teC:'.
belO\.l

-~ ---'

-

Point of contact is Caroline Whiteed, DSN 680-2237, or COMM

(804) 727-2237.

FOR TBB COMMANDER:

Bncl
as

WILLIAM H. GUERRA
Colonel, GS
Deputy Chief of Staff
for Infurmation Management
=

CP:
Commander,
~ CONSOLIDATED LIST OF ADTL THAT MAY BAVB_ 'l'ffi~
USAAVNC (ATZQ-TDO-P)
' RESTRICTIVE DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT REMOVED
OSAIC ' Fort Huachuca (ATZS-TD
(UPDATED SEP 94)
70SAOC&S (ATSL-CD-CS)
OSASSI (ATSG-TSR)
t.JSACASCOH (ATCL-CLD)
USABSC (BSO-P-ST)
. USAJPKSWCS (AO,JK-DTD- M)
FM 24-22
FM 54-30
FM
24-24
FM 54-40
Commandant,
FM 24-27
FM 54 - 50
OSAADASCB (ATSA-DT)
FM 24-30
f"M 55-1
'OSAARMS (ATSB-AC)
FM 24-40
FH 55 - 9
(CONT)
FM 25--&
FM 5.5-10
FM 25-5
FM 55-13
PM 25-100
P'>1 55-20
FM 25-101
FM 55~11

l

~

26 - 2

PM 55-:50

,..

I
,~

:...

.

CONSOLIDATED LIST OF ADTL THAT MAY BAVE TBE
RESTRICTIVE DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT REMOVED
(UPDATED SEP 94)

'
FM 1-100
FM 1-101

FM
FM
FM
FM
FM

1-102
1-103
1-104
1-107
1-108
FM 1-109
FM 1-111
FM 1-112
FM 1-113
FH 1-114
FH 1-116
FM 1-117
FM l-11e
FM 1-120
FM 1-140
FM 1-202
FM 1-203
FM 1-220
FM 1-230
FH 1-240
FH 1-300
FM 1-302
FH 1-400
F:-t 1-402
FH 1-500
FM 1-506
FH 1-508
FM 1-511
FM 1-513
FH 5-36
FM 5-100
FH 5-101
FM 5-103
PM 5-116
FH 5-134
?H 5-233
F'?i 5-335
m :s-551
?'M 6-2
?~1 6-15
~i :5- 1 5
?fl S- 1 6-1

,g}4 5-1 5-2
·7,1

;- -1.6 - J

FM 6-20
FM 6-20-1
FM 6-20-2
FM 6-20-10
FM 6-20-30
FM 6-20-40
FM 6-20-50
FM 6-30
FM 6-40
FM 6-40A
FM 6-50
FM 6-60
FM 6-121
FM 6-141-1
FM 6-300
FM 7-7
FM 8-27
FM e-34
FM 9-6
FM 9-13
FM 9-35
FM 9-38
FM 9-43-1
FM 9-43-2
FM 9-43-3
FH 9-59
FM 9-207
FH 10-18
FM 10-27
FH 10-52
FH 10-52-1
FM 10-67
FM 10-69
FM 10-70
FM 10-70-1
FH 10-200
FM 10-427
FM 11-29
FH 11-30
FM 11-37
FM 11-38
PM 11-41
~ 11-4.3
~

11-~4

~~

11-43
11·- 51

Y ·~

FM 11-53
FM 11-54
FM 11-55
FM 11-58
FM 11-59
FM 11-70
FM 11-75
FH 11-76
FM 11-82
FM 12-6
FM 12-50
FM 14-6
FM 14-7
FM 16-1
FM 19-1
FM 19-4
FM 19-10
FM 19-15
FM 19-20
FM 19-25
FM 19-30
FM 19-35
FM 19-40
FM 19-60
FM 20-22
FM 21-16
FM 21-17
FM 21-75
FM 21-76
FM 21-305
FM 21-306
FM 22-9
FM 22-101
FM 22-103
FM 23-24
FM 23-27
PH 23-35
FH 23-67
FM 23-9 1
FM 24-1
FM 24-2
FM 24-Hl
FH 24-11
FM 2:.1-1 .?.
F jo1 2-i ·· HI
F.~

2-1 ·-..:. 5•

FM 24-22
FM 24-24
FM 24-27
FM 24-30
FM 24-40
FM 25-4
FM 25-5
FM 25-100
FM 25-101
FM 26-2
FM 31-19
FM 31-24
FM 31-25
FM 31-27
FM 31-82
FM 34-10-1
FM 34-13
FM 34-35
FM 34-37
FM 34-40-2
FH 34-40-7
FM 34-80
FM 34-82
FM 34-95
FM 39-95-1
FM 38-746
FM 43-12
FM 43-20
FM 44-1
FM 44-3
FM 44-4
FM 44-5
FH 44-8
FM 44-11-2
FM 44-15
FM ' 44-15-l
FM 44-16
FH 44-13
'?M 44-18-1
?H 44-30
?~ 44-31
?M 44-63
FM 44-90
?!·I 44 - 100
:~·I 45-1
"e'H

FM 54-30
FM 54-40
FM 54-50
FM 55-1
FM 55-9

FM 55-10
FM 55-15
FM 55-20

FM 55-21
FM 55-50
FM 55-60
FM 55-65
FM 55-501
FM 55-501-2
FM 55-509
FM 55-509-1
FM 55-509-3
FM 55-511
FM 63-1
FM 63-2
FM 63-2-1
FH 63-3
FM 63-4
FH 63-20
FM 63-21
P.H 63-23
FH 63-24
FH 71-2
FM 71-100
FM 71-100-1
FM 100-2-1
FM 100-2-2
FM 100-15
FM 100-15-1
FM 100-22
FM 100-37
FM 101-5
FM 101,...5-1
FM 700-80
F"{ 701-sa

-

3 ~ -23

~

- !

