FM 7-15, C1 Change No. 1 Headquarters Department of the Army Washington, DC, 15 October 2009 The Army Universal Task List 1. This change adds ART 5.1.3.4.5, “Advise the Command,” to the AUTL to enable training developers to link staff collective tasks to the AUTL. 2. A plus sign (+) marks new material. 3. FM 7-15, 27 February 2009, is changed as follows: Remove Old Pages Insert New Pages pages 5-15 through 5-16 pages 5-15 through 5-16.1 4. File this transmittal sheet in front of the publication for reference purposes. DISTRUBUTION RESTRICTION: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited. FM 7-15, C1 15 October 2009 By order of the Secretary of the Army: GEORGE W. CASEY, JR. General, United States Army Chief of Staff Official: JOYCE E. MORROW Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Army 0926706 DISTRIBUTION: Active Army, Army National Guard, and U.S. Army Reserve: Not to be distributed; electronic media only. PIN: 081007-001 ART 5.0: The Command and Control Warfighting Function No. Scale Measure Commander adjusted unit plan to exploit opportunities or resolve problems 01 Yes/No occurring during execution. To adjust original plan after assessing progress and recognizing threat or 02 Time opportunity. 03 Number Of adjustments effective in seizing opportunity or countering threat. ART 5.1.3.4 SYNCHRONIZE ACTIONS TO PRODUCE MAXIMUM EFFECTIVE APPLICATION OF MILITARY POWER 5-34. Arrange military actions by forces and warfighting functions in time, space, and purpose to produce maximum relative military power at a decisive place and time. (FM 6-0) (USACAC) No. Scale Measure 01 Yes/No Commander synchronized unit actions to accomplish the mission. 02 Time To resynchronize warfighting functions after execution or adjustment decision. 03 Percent Of required resynchronization accomplished in time available. Of assigned and supporting forces coordinated to synchronize operation in 04 Percent right place at right time. 05 Number Of friendly actions. Of uncoordinated element or activity actions causing disruption or delay of 06 Number U.S. or multinational plans and objectives. ART 5.1.3.4.1 Coordinate Actions Within a Staff Section 5-35. Exchange information and arrange actions to inform, integrate, and deconflict actions within a staff section during operations to reduce duplication, confusion, and problems. (FM 6-0) (USACAC) No. Scale Measure 01 Yes/No Unit deconflicted actions within a staff section. 02 Time Spent to coordinate within staff section. 03 Percent Of actions coordinated within staff section before disseminating further. Of actions uncoordinated within staff section causing disruption or delay of 04 Incidents operation. 05 Incidents Of actions uncoordinated within staff section affecting others’ actions. ART 5.1.3.4.2 Synchronize Actions Among Staff Sections (Coordinating, Special, and Personal) 5-36. Coordinate actions among staff sections in arranging military actions in time, space, and purpose by warfighting functions to produce the maximum relative military power at a decisive place and time. This includes informing of, integrating, and deconflicting actions undertaken by or directed by staff sections during operations to reduce duplication, confusion, and problems among the staff sections. (FM 6-0) (USACAC) Note: ART 5.1.3.4.2 includes the targeting process outlined in JP 3-60 and FM 6-20-10. No. Scale Measure Staff section cooperated in arranging military actions in time, space, and 01 Yes/No purpose. 02 Time Spent to coordinate among staff sections. 03 Percent Of actions coordinated among staff sections before disseminating further. 15 October 2009 FM 7-15, C1 5-15 FM 7-15, CH 1 No. Scale Measure Of uncoordinated actions between staff sections causing disruption or delay of 04 Number unit operations. 05 Number Of actions uncoordinated among staff section affecting others’ actions. ART 5.1.3.4.3 Review Orders of Subordinate Organizations 5-37. Ensure that all relevant information and factors issued in subordinate orders contribute to vertical warfighting function synchronization. ART 5.1.3.4.3 informs the staff about whom they will have to coordinate. It reveals potential conflicts and problems among subordinate forces, higher headquarters, adjacent, and other units that might affect or be affected by the subordinate plan and the headquarters’ plan. It resolves conflicts and problems among forces before they affect preparations or operations, or resolves the damage. (FM 6-0) (USACAC) No. Scale Measure Commander resolved conflicts and problems between subordinates before 01 Yes/No they affected preparations or operations. 02 Percent Of subordinate organization orders reviewed. Of discrepancies between subordinates organizations’ orders and unit order 03 Number force order that could have affected operation. ART 5.1.3.4.4 Synchronize Force Operations 5-38. Arrange military actions by subordinate forces and the force as a whole in time, space, and purpose to produce maximum relative military power at a decisive place and time. (FM 6-0) (USACAC) No. Scale Measure 01 Yes/No Synchronized force operations allowed the unit to accomplish its mission. Of assigned and supporting forces participating in operation in right place at 02 Percent right time. Of uncoordinated element or activity actions causing disruption or delay of 03 Number operation. +ART 5.1.3.4.5 Advise the Command 5-38.1 Staffs contribute to achieving the commander’s intent by fulfilling their functional responsibilities within the authority the commander delegates to them. Effective staffs and staff members provide commanders with timely relevant information and well-analyzed recommendations. Staff members inform and advise the commander and other staff members concerning matters pertaining to their respective and related functional responsibilities and assigned duties. (FM 6-0) (USACAC) No. Scale Measure Staff section provided quality and timely information in support of decision 01 Yes/No making processes. Staff assisted the commander minimize unnecessary risks by assessing 02 Yes/No hazards within their respective and related functional responsibilities and duties. Staff informed and advised the commander and other staff members concerning all 03 Yes/No matters in their individual functional responsibilities. Staff informed and advised the commander and other staff members 04 Yes/No concerning capabilities, limitations, requirements, availability, and employment of resources. 5-16 FM 7-15, C1 15 October 2009 ART 5.0: The Command and Control Warfighting Function No. Scale Measure Staff informed and advised the commander and other staff members 05 Yes/No concerning capabilities, limitations, requirements, availability, and employment of supporting forces. Staff informed and advised the commander and other staff members 06 Yes/No concerning directives and policy guidance from higher headquarters. Staff functions are synchronized by the Chief of Staff or Executive Officer to provide a 07 Yes/No singular product that is not a series of individual staff estimates. Staff coordinated with supporting units and higher headquarters for operational needs 08 Yes/No beyond unit capability. To evaluate, update, and disseminate new information with higher, lower, adjacent, supported and supporting organizations, which facilitate collaborative planning, rapid 09 Time execution of commander's orders, and a shared situational understanding of the operational environment. ART 5.1.3.5 CONDUCT TRANSITIONS 5-39. Transitions mark intervals between the ongoing operation and full execution of branches and sequels. Transitions often mark the change from one dominant type of operation, such as offense, to another such as stability. Commanders at all levels must possess the mental agility to rapidly transition from one type of operation to another. For example, at lower echelons, transitions occur when one formation passes through another, or when units must breach an obstacle belt. Links between phases and the requirement to transition between phases are critically important. Commanders establish clear conditions for how and when these transitions occur during planning. Although phases are distinguishable to friendly forces, the operational design conceals these distinctions from opponents through concurrent and complementary joint and Army actions. (FM 3-0) (USACAC) No. Scale Measure Unit conducted transition from one phase to another and maintained seamless 01 Yes/No continuity of operations. 02 Yes/No Commander provided new graphic control measures. 03 Yes/No Commander adopted new task organization, if required. 04 Yes/No Commander issued new priorities. 05 Yes/No Commander issued new rules of engagement. 06 Yes/No Commander determined possible branches or sequels for likely next phase. ART 5.1.3.6 RECONSTITUTE TACTICAL FORCES 5-40. Reconstitution is the extraordinary action taken by commanders to restore units to a desired level of combat effectiveness, commensurate with mission requirements and available resources. The major elements of reconstitution are reorganization, assessment, and regeneration. Reconstitution requires a decision by the commander having control of the required resources. (FM 100-9) (CASCOM) 15 October 2009 FM 7-15, C1 5-16.1 This page intentionally left blank.
