
TC 7-21.13

Soldier’s Guide







































































November 2015



DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTION:

Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.



iHEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

i



































This publication is available at Army Knowledge Online (https://armypubs.us.army.mil/doctrine/index.html).

To receive publishing updates, please subscribe at http://www.apd.army.mil/AdminPubs/new_subscribe.asp.



Foreword



You now belong to one of the greatest organizations in the world. Soldiers today have been challenged in many ways unlike those generations before us. The experience is not always going to come from a book. Some are passed on by those that reflect in their experiences and train others by setting standards and understanding the basics. We remind ourselves that it is from within, of self, family, team, organization, and country that counts in our lives. In order to help you with these decisions you must continue to learn. This Soldier’s guide is one source to assist you in meeting mission.



We have been practicing this for over two centuries. Since the events on September 11, 2001, we now live in a different world. A world filled with concerns, this training circular assists you with understanding your responsibilities to yourself and to the Soldier on the right and left of you. It reminds us that those Soldiers are all that count when you face the battle. Using this guide enables you to learn to cope, discover, retain, and to find the basic answer while training. You must maintain proficiency and professionalism at all times.



We live by a Creed that begins with “I AM AN AMERICAN SOLDIER. I AM A WARRIOR AND A MEMBER OF A TEAM. I SERVE THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES AND LIVE

THE ARMY VALUES.” As we grow, we use this guide as well as many other writings that support mission accomplishment. In a short while, we grow to focus on another creed that reads “NO ONE IS MORE PROFESSIONAL THAN I. I AM A NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER, A LEADER OF SOLDIERS.”

ission First, Soldiers Always.”Now you say, “M ssion First, Soldiers Always.”

ission First, Soldiers Always.”







DANIEL A. DAILEYDANIEL A. DAILEY

DANIEL A. DAILEY

Sergeant Major of the Army









































This page intentionally left blank.



*TC 7-21.13





Training Circular No 7-21.13

Headquarters Department of the Army Washington, DC, 30 November 2015





Soldier’s Guide

Contents





Page Preface	v

Acknowledgements	vi

The Army Song	vii

1-1.	First Permanent Change of Station.	1-1

1-2.	Subsequent Permanent Change of Stations.	1-5

1-3.	Soldier Barracks/Housing	1-7

1-4.	Sponsorship	1-10

1-5.	Pre-Deployment.	1-12

1-6.	Family Care Plan.	1-12

2-1.	Department of the Army Seal	2-1

2-2.	History of U.S. Army Ranks.	2-2

2-3.	History/Conflicts.	2-4

3-1.	A Profession Built on Trust.	3-1

3-2.	The Army Profession	3-2

3-3.	What Makes “You” an Army Professional?	3-3

3-4.	The Professional Soldier	3-4

3-5.	Army Ethic.	3-4

3-6.	Army Values	3-5

3-7.	The Soldier’s Creed.	3-6

3-8.	Army Customs, Courtesies, and Traditions	3-7

3-9.	Drill and Ceremonies	3-9

4-1.	Roles.	4-1

4-2.	Obligations	4-1

4-3.	Oath of Enlistment	4-3

4-4.	Relationships.	4-4

Distribution Restriction: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.

*This publication supersedes FM 7-21.13, dated 2 February 2004 including all changes.





Glossary  ....................................................................................................Glossary-1

References .............................................................................................  References-1

Figures

Figure 2-1. Army Seal-1778.	2-1

Figure 2-2. Department of the Army Emblem	2-2

Figure 3-1. Army Values	3-6

Figure 3-2. Soldier's Creed	3-7

Figure 4-1. Oath of Enlistment	4-4

Figure 4-2. Code of Conduct	4-11

Figure 5-1. Soldier Leadership Cycle	5-2

Figure 8-1. Risk management process	8-6

Figure 8-2. SHARP Reporting Process Flow Chart – Part A	8-23





Figure 8-3. SHARP Reporting Process Flow Chart - Part B	8-24

Figure 8-4. SHARP Complaint Process Flow Chart - Part A	8-25

Figure 8-5. SHARP Complaint Process Flow Chart - Part B	8-26

Figure 9-1. Bridging the Gap	9-10





Tables



Table 2-1. Revolutionary War streamers	2-5

Table 2-2. War of 1812 streamers	2-5

Table 2-3. Mexican War streamers	2-6

Table 2-4. Civil War streamers	2-6

Table 2-5. Indian Wars streamers	2-7

Table 2-6. Philippine Insurrection streamers	2-8

Table 2-7. World War I streamers	2-9

Table 2-8. World War II streamers	2-10

Table 2-9. Korean War streamers	2-11

Table 2-10. Vietnam War streamers	2-11

Table 2-11. War on Terrorism streamers	2-13

Table 5-1. Chain of Command	5-7

Table 5-2. NCO Support Channel	5-9

Table 8-1. Bystander actions	8-19

Table 9-1. Enlisted Career Map.	9-2

Table 9-2. Promotion Criteria-Active Duty	9-2

Table 9-3. Maximum Punishments in Article 15	9-18



Preface

This training circular is meant to be a reference for subjects in which all Soldiers must maintain proficiency, regardless of rank, component, or military occupational specialty (MOS). It condenses information from Army Doctrine Publications (ADPs), Army Doctrine Reference Publications (ADRPs), Field Manuals (FMs), Training Circulars (TCs), Army Regulations (ARs), and other Army publication sources. It addresses general subjects and is not all-inclusive or intended as a stand-alone document. This guide offers Soldiers a ready reference on many subjects. The Soldier’s Guide describes the Army Values, Army Ethic, the fundamental obligations of a Soldier and the basics of leadership.



The principal audience for TC 7-21.13 is all Soldiers of the Army Profession, but primarily those from ranks of PVT thru SPC.



TC 7-21.13 applies to the Active Army, Army National Guard (ARNG), United States Army Reserve (USAR), and Army civilians unless otherwise stated.



The proponent of TC 7-21.13 is the United States Army Sergeants Major Academy. The preparing agency is the United States Army Sergeants Major Academy. Send comments and recommendations on a Department of the Army (DA) Form 2028 (Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms) to:



Commandant, United States Army Sergeants Major Academy ATTN: ATSS-DAE (TC 7-21.13)

11291 SGT E. Churchill Street Fort Bliss, TX 79918-8002



E-mail address: usarmy.bliss.usasma.mbx.atss-dae@mail.mil



Acknowledgements

Cover photo from http://www.defense.gov is courtesy of the United States Department of Defense.



Assorted photos from http://www.army.mil are courtesy of the United States Army.



Assorted photos from http://www.apd.army.mil are courtesy of the United States Army.





The Army Song











































This page intentionally left blank.



WHAT TO EXPECT



This chapter discusses some aspects of what Soldiers should expect when they arrive to their first duty station to include their subsequent moves throughout their career.



1-1. First Permanent Change of Station.

You can expect your experience to differ from others depending on many variables from your military occupational specialty (MOS) to your unit of assignment. You need to remember to be flexible and adjust to your assigned operational area. Everything that you have learned through basic and advanced individual training (AIT) will assist in providing a basic guideline to follow in the absence of higher leadership. Regulations are not for interpretation and provide facts of the expectations for all Army professionals such as AR 600-9, the Army Body Composition Program (ABCP), and the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). It is your responsibility to ensure you understand and are well versed in all regulations.



Shortly following your arrival for your training at AIT, you will receive notification indicating where your first duty station will be after graduation. When the time comes, you can expect to meet with admin personnel of the school you attended to arrange your transportation requirements You will be provided a packet that will contain important documents to include your orders, medical and dental records. It is very important that you keep these documents together in a safe place. The documents especially your orders will contain all the pertinent information that you as a Soldier must execute in order to have a smooth transition during your first permanent change of station (PCS) move.



Straight to the unit. If you do not take leave after AIT, you will proceed to your next duty station for in processing. It is your responsibility to arrive at your next duty station by your





report date. Should you incur a problem that would prevent you from reporting on the designated date, you must call the point of contact on your orders and if necessary locate the nearest recruiting office or military installation and obtain a provisional pass. This ensures you are under military control and not classified as absent without leave (AWOL). If you fail to report on the designated date or contact your gaining unit, you may be charged AWOL.



Leave. After completing initial entry training and AIT, you can go home on leave before heading to your first duty assignment. This leave will depend on how many days of leave you have accrued while at initial entry training and AIT. You earn 30 days of leave a year with pay and allowances at the rate of 2 ½ days a month (AR 600-8-10, para 2-3a). Your commander may allow you to go into a negative leave balance depending on the length of the leave request. A negative leave balance could prevent you from using emergency leave in case of a Red Cross message in the future. While on leave, there are certain standards that you must maintain such as:



Conducting yourself as a Soldier at all times. See chapter 4-7, Soldier Conduct.



Maintaining a certain level of physical conditioning while on leave to meet the body composition requirements outlined in AR 600-9 and pass the Army Physical Fitness Test (APFT) within 30 days of arrival to your new unit.



NOTE: Failure in meeting these requirements can lead to you being flagged, receive a bar from reenlistment, and/or being processed for involuntary separation from the Army.





Hometown recruiter assistance program (HRAP). If you meet the requirements found on the U.S. Army Recruiting Command website, you can apply for the HRAP, which allows you to accompany recruiters throughout the community to obtain





quality referrals for enlistment. If accepted for the program you would be on a permissive temporary duty status for up to 14 days (AR 601-2, paragraph 7-3). Soldiers who meet the below criteria may volunteer to participate in HRAP by submitting a DA Form 31 (Request And Authority For Leave) through the appropriate chain of command:



High School Diploma graduates, have completed a general education development, or completed 15 or more credit hours of college (AIT or one station unit training graduates may participate in HRAP).

Meet Army height & weight standards.

Reside within 50 miles of the nearest recruiting station (must provide own transportation).

Volunteer to perform HRAP duty in a permissive temporary duty status at no cost to the government.



Traveling to new duty station.



Liaison Officer. Airports located near military installations may have a military liaison officer in airport lobbies to assist you upon arrival to the installation. Depending on the installation, the liaison officer may provide transportation to the installation welcome center or provide you with the necessary information to use public transportation to the welcome center.



United Services Organization (USO). The USO is a volunteer program established to provide morale support to all military personnel. Most major airports in the United States and overseas have a USO office to provide you and/ or your family friendly and safe location while waiting for your connecting flight. Most USOs provide services like nurseries, snacks, beverages, games, and Wi-Fi. They also provide information on local attractions and services.





Absent without leave (AWOL). It is imperative that you report to your next duty station on or before your report date. Failure to sign in from leave by your report date constitutes an unauthorized absence and is punishable under Articles 85, and 86 of the UCMJ. Article 85 is desertion and attempted desertion if the absence is over 30 days. Article 86 is failure to go to appointed place of duty, leaving appointed place of duty and absence without leave.



NOTE: If your leave form has an earlier date than your orders, it is probably because you have not accrued enough leave days to bridge the gap to your report date. In this case, you must report on or before the “to” date in block 10 of your DA 31 (leave form).





Documentation. You need to ensure you have all the proper documentation upon arrival at your new duty station to in process the installation. You will need to sign in from leave before midnight. You will need to provide a copy of your leave form (DA Form 31) and at least six copies of your orders. Some of the other items needed include a marriage certificate, birth certificate(s), PCS orders, dental records, shot records, divorce decree, and receipts from travel and possibly your security packet.



Reimbursable Expenses. Receipts from PCS travel might include lodging and allowable expenses. See your travel office or supervisor for additional information on reimbursable and non-reimbursable expense allowed for a PCS move.



Reception, staging, onward movement, and integration (RSOI) is the process that transitions personnel and equipment into the installation during PCS or a theater during deployments.



Reception. Upon arrival at your new duty station, you are normally required to in process the installation at a reception center before you are released to your gaining unit. Depending on the time of day and the method of travel you took to arrive, you





will be signed in, briefed, and assigned temporary lodging during your in-processing phase.



Staging. This phase normally begins around 2-3 days following your arrival. It is mainly to await the arrival of additional Soldiers so that you are all integrated into a group to undergo Soldier Readiness Processing (SRP) together. This process is to ensure that all your administrative and medical requirements are up to date. The goal is to minimize or eliminate additional reprocessing after you arrive at your gaining unit.



Onward-movement. Upon completion of your SRP, you are ready to be released to your unit. Your gaining unit sponsor will meet you and arrange transportation to your unit.



Integration. This phase takes place at your new unit and involves in-processing, initial counseling, barracks assignments, issuing TA-50 field equipment, and any other activity that will integrate you to your new chain of command.



1-2. Subsequent Permanent Change of Stations.

Permanent change of station is when you are reassigned to a new duty station, just as you experienced in your first move following AIT. The difference is that you are solely responsible for making all the coordination’s for every subsequent moves you make from this point forward. A PCS move is both physically and emotionally taxing, but there are support services available to assist you during this transition. A majority of these services are located in CHAPTER 8 - or you can see your organizational personnel office (S1) to assist you.



Levy Briefing. Upon notification of a pending assignment, you will be schedule for a levy briefing in order to determine what will be required on your PCS orders. Key installation departments will provide a briefing and instructions on filling out the required paperwork needed for your PCS orders. A





few of these departments are the military personnel division, finance, housing, transportation, school liaison, and the Army Community Service. Every installation will be different but these six are the basic departments to provide you guidance and information for your PCS move.



PCS Orders. Your PCS orders provide you with detailed information required to relocate to your next duty station. It will indicate your unit of reassignment, when your report date is, the location of where to report to at your next duty station, and contact information to agencies that can assist if you experience hardship during the process.



Upon receipt of your orders, you should immediately make an appointment with the transportation office to coordinate your move. The purpose of this appointment is to schedule the movement of your household goods from your barracks or residence to your gaining duty station at no cost to you.



There are weight allowances included with your move and associated with your rank. If you have dependents and they will accommodate you to your next duty station, your weight allowance will be a little higher to account for them, so be sure to ask the transportation representative for the weight limitation information. This weight limit should be monitored closely to avoid out of pocket expenses when you exceed it. If you are over your authorized weight, you could be liable to cover the cost of the added weight. This payment is usually taken out of your pay based on payment options you select (lump sum, or monthly allotments).



If you are PCSing outside the continental United States, you are authorized to ship personal property, to include a single POV. A subsequent vehicle will incur an out of pocket expense so check with your sponsor and transportation office for any limitations. For additional information, refer to the Joint





Travel Regulation, located on the Defense Travel Management Office website.



1-3. Soldier Barracks/Housing.1

A quality living environment enhances morale. The Army strives to provide single Soldiers, the quality facilities and services essential to ensuring a high quality of life. The ultimate goal is to ensure that you and every Soldier live in a clean, safe, functional, and secure environment. A proper environment should provide privacy and comfort as well as predictable living standards. As part of the Single Soldier Initiative, barracks have been upgraded and under new management to support the Soldier. This means that living in an open bay with several other Soldiers and sharing a common bathroom is a concept of the past. Today, you will most likely share a room with another Soldier and a bathroom with an adjoining room. A typical room you will be assigned is normally furnished with a single bed, lamp, dresser, desk and closet space.



Unaccompanied housing. As an unaccompanied housing (UH) resident, you are responsible for your conduct as well as for the general upkeep of your assigned area(s). You are wholly responsible for the housekeeping and maintenance of your living quarters. Housekeeping includes the general cleaning and upkeep of the barracks room. Maintenance includes protecting the Army’s facilities and investment by ensuring maintenance issues are identified and reported in a timely manner. This includes reporting incidents of vandalism, neglect of facilities furnishings or equipment to the Unit Representative or your leadership. You will take an active role in promoting energy conservation within your assigned quarters by turning off all lights and electronics in your room when not in use or occupied. Some of your primary responsibilities in the unaccompanied housing include:









1 U.S. Department of the Army, First Sergeant’s Barracks Program 2020

Handbook, 26 March 2014.





Following established rules of conduct and joint occupancy of living in quarters.

Regularly cleaning the latrine (including shower/tub, commode, sink, floors, and windows).

Regularly cleaning the kitchenette and all appliances (inside and out).

Keeping the kitchenette free of debris and/or trash.

Regularly cleaning the floors, doors, windows, and trim (interior).

Regularly dusting and wiping down of furniture, requesting a replacement when item is unserviceable.

Organizing and storing personal items.

Reporting any required work orders/service orders to the building manager and/or unit representative/directorate of public works.

Following established energy and water conservation measures.



Who can live in the Barracks? Barracks are built to house bona fide single military personnel who would be entitled to a housing allowance at the without dependent rate.



A Single Soldier in the grade of E-5 (SGT) or below inside the United States and E-6 (SSG) or below outside the United States may live in the barracks. If you are married to another Soldier who is assigned to a different duty station and you do not have dependent Family members, you are not entitled to basic allowance for housing (BAH) and will be assigned a barracks room. If you are recently divorced, you will need to provide a copy of your divorce decree and a DA Form 5960 (Authorization to Start, Stop, Or Change Basic Allowance For Quarters, And/or Variable Housing Allowance stamped by finance in order to be provided a barrack room. Another factor to consider for eligibility includes the type of tour: all others, dependent restricted.





If you are married or in the grade of E-7 or above, you cannot live in the barracks, unless assigned to a restricted tour area such as Korea.



Exceptions. Unaccompanied personnel with dependents who voluntarily separate from their dependents are sometimes referred to as “geographic bachelors.” Unaccompanied personnel with dependents must submit an exception to policy request through their chain of command, and if approved you are housed on a “space available” basis.



When you arrive at your installation, the welcome center will contact your assigned unit and your unit may either assign you a transient or permanent barracks room. The transient room is temporary lodging until you sign for your permanent room from the unit representative. The transient room is a unit-controlled room; you will sign for and clear this room through your unit (usually the Staff Duty Noncommissioned Officer (NCO)).



Once you are assigned to your company level unit, your sponsor will escort you to the unit representative to sign for your permanent room. The sponsor will verify unit assignment and assist with unit specific information on the housing application.



Family Housing outside of the Barracks. If married, you may consider living on post based on the availability of housing or begin the house hunting process off the installation. The quality of military housing - as part of the military quality of life -is an essential component of military readiness. Military installations offer accommodations to ensure that you and your Family are comfortable. Although living on post is an option, it may not be the right decision for you. You may decide to live off-post and therefore you must exercise all your options to be sure, of what you want to do. Turning in on-post housing will require clearing quarters, repairing or paying for damages and could incur additional cost to move off the installation.





Benefits to Living in Military Housing. Quality housing assists the Department of Defense (DOD) in retaining the best personnel for its all-volunteer force. The percentage of personnel, who decide to stay in the service following their initial enlistment, is much higher in those who are stationed at installations with

high-quality housing, than those who reside at installations with low-quality housing. Today's Soldiers want to live in a community that offers stability, security, and continuity as a backdrop for deployment, reassignment, and day-to-day life.



Basic Allowance for Housing. Soldiers authorized to live on or off base in the private sector/ community housing, or in "military privatized housing," are entitled to BAH. BAH provides military families accurate and equitable housing compensation based on housing costs in local civilian housing markets. The BAH is usually surrendered as rent for on post or privatized housing.



On Post Housing. The installation housing office provides military housing in areas where private sector housing falls short —where cost, commuting, and other factors such as schools are considered. In these cases, it operates barracks for unaccompanied personnel, military Family housing for members with dependents, and temporary lodging for military families who are changing stations or on temporary duty.



1-4. Sponsorship.

When notified you will PCS, your gaining unit will assign a sponsor to you, who will provide information about the unit, the installation and contact information prior to your departure from your losing unit. Traveling to your duty station where you have not been previously assigned to can be a new and challenging experience for any Soldier. Your future command will provide you with a sponsor to help integrate you into the command and installation. Sponsors are experienced, of equal or higher rank, have similar military occupational specialty (MOS)/background,





Family status, and gender of the Soldier (AR 600-8-8). There are seven elements to the sponsorship program:



DA Form 5434, Sponsorship Program Counseling and Information Sheet. Upon notification of assignment, you must complete DA Form 5434, Sections 1, 2, 4, and 5, in Army Career Tracker (ACT) to request a sponsor at your first or next duty assignment.



Welcome letter. Your gaining unit at the battalion level will assign you a sponsor and will send you a welcome letter, through Army Career Tracker, with sponsor information. Your sponsor will complete DA Form 5434, Section 3, in the ACT, and send you a welcome letter as well with his or her contact information to make contact before and after arrival at the installation. The sponsor should also establish telephonic contact to discuss other sponsorship needs.



Relocation readiness services. Army Community Services (ACS) will provide counseling, pre-move destination information (including the Standard Installation Topic Exchange Service), and overseas orientation briefings. ACS will also provide welcome packets upon request either at your current duty installation, or upon arrival at your gaining duty installation.



Reception. When possible, the sponsor should plan to greet you upon arrival to your new duty station. Your sponsor should contact you ahead of time to arrange a time to meet you and orient you to the installation.



Orientation. The sponsor should provide you with an orientation of the installation, the unit areas, as well as key support services you may need like ACS and the housing office. This general orientation should be in addition to the formal orientation briefings during the installation in processing.





In processing. Your sponsor does not conduct your in processing, but can assist you with in processing when necessary.



Garrison support. The Installation Management Agency (IMA) will ensure garrison support is provided to unit commanders when conducting sponsorship training and providing relocation information and assistance.



1-5. Pre-Deployment.

Military operations today are such that every Active, Guard or Reserve Soldier can expect to deploy or re-deploy frequently. Whether the mission is combat operations, peacekeeping, humanitarian or disaster relief, back-to-back deployments or training for extended periods of time, the current operational tempo of the military can cause Soldiers to spend more time away from their Families. This is why the ACS has developed various tools to assist you in coping with the transition into and returning from deployments. There are also tools and resources to assist your Family members in coping with these transitions as well. For additional information, refer to your local ACS Office or the Military One Source Home Page.



1-6. Family Care Plan.

If you are a single parent or dual military member, the Army assists you in providing for the welfare of your Family members and is an essential part of military readiness. As a Soldier, you are required to be readily available to execute your duties where and when the Army dictates-without the interference of Family responsibilities. In our profession, deployments could be frequent and are sometimes sudden, leaving little or no time to make necessary arrangements for your Family members. That is where your Family Care Plan must be in place and executable. If the DA Form 5305 (Family Care Plan) is prepared correctly and in advance, it will assist you during your deployment and provide reassurance that everything is taken care of at home, minimizing





Family-related stress, and enabling you to concentrate more fully on your mission (AR 600-20).



The requirement for a Family Care Plan applies to both Active and Reserve Component Soldiers, regardless of grade. AR 600-20, paragraph 5-5(b), lists the specific categories of Soldiers for whom a Family Care Plan is mandatory.



The unit commander is the sole approving authority for your Family Care Plan. Prior to approving your plan, the unit commander will evaluate your plan to verify that the conditions meet all of the necessary requirements of AR 600-20. If the commander does not approve your Family Care Plan, you may be separated from the military under Chapter 5-8 (Involuntary separation due to parenthood) as outlined in AR 600-20.







































This page intentionally left blank.



HISTORY OF THE ARMY



The United States Army has a proud history of continuously serving the Nation and defending our Constitution since its inception on 14 June 1775. In this chapter, a brief history of the Army’s service and its significance to the Soldier are discussed.



2-1. Department of the Army Seal.2

The Army Seal (Figure 2-1) was originally used during the American Revolution to authenticate documents. It displayed the designation “War Office,” which was synonymous with Headquarters of the Army, and the Roman date MDCCLXXVIII (1778) the first time it was used. It remained unchanged until 1947, when the War Office banner was replaced with “Department of the Army” and the date was changed to 1775, the year in which the Army was established.

Figure 2-1. Army Seal-1778.

The seal embodies the Army’s ideals of loyalty, vigilance, perseverance, truth, courage, zeal, fortitude, remembrance, determination, constancy, achievement, dignity, and honor.



The Seal did not define the Army and was not authorized for public display. In a search to find an official display to









2 Center of Military History, Department of the Army Emblem, 25 February 2000.





represent the Army, the “Department of the Army Emblem”

(Figure 2-2) was born.

Figure 2-2. Department of the Army Emblem



The Army Seal was used as a model to create the Army Emblem and therefore the symbols closely resembles one another, yet differ in several ways. A full history of the seal and additional information on these differences is located at the Center of Military History (CMH) and AR 840-1.



2-2. History of U.S. Army Ranks.3

‘Chevron’ is an architectural term denoting the rafters of a roof meeting at an angle at the upper apex. The chevron in heraldry was employed as a badge of honor to mark the main supporters of the head of the clan or ‘top of the house’ and it came to be used in various forms as an emblem of rank for knights and men-at-arms in feudal days. One legend is that the chevron, which resembled a rooftop, was awarded to a knight to show he had taken part in capturing a castle, town, or other building. It is believed its use as an insignia of grade by military was a result of this process. The lozenge or diamond used to indicate first sergeant is a mark of distinction and was used in heraldry to indicate achievement.



Chevrons were sewn on the sleeves of uniforms with the point down from approximately 1820 to 1903. They were worn with the points both up and down between 1903 and 1905 after the



3 The Institute of Heraldry, History of U.S. Army Enlisted Ranks, (n.d.).





first reversal from ‘down' to 'up' was authorized on 1 May 1903. Because of the number of gold insignia available, troops were permitted to wear the old-type chevron until the supply became exhausted.



To assure uniformity in both color and position of the new colored chevrons, the War Department on 30 November 1905, stated that the points of the chevrons would be worn points upward. It also provided for the following colors as directed on 1 May 1903. The colors were: Artillery-scarlet; Cavalry-yellow; Engineers-scarlet piped with orange; Hospital Corps-maroon piped with white; Infantry-light blue; Ordnance-black piped with scarlet; Post Quartermaster Sergeant-buff; Signal Corps-orange piped with white; West Point Band-light blue; and West Point Detachment-buff.



As early as 1820, chevrons were worn with the point down, although there was no official direction to appear in regulations until 1821 when chevrons were authorized for both officers and enlisted men. The War Department in 1821, stated that ‘Chevrons will designate rank (both of officers through the rank of captain and enlisted men) as follows: Captains, one on each arm, above the elbow, and subalterns, on each arm below the elbow. They will be of gold or silver lace, half an inch wide, conforming in colour to the button of their regiment or corps. The angles of the chevron to point upwards.’



Adjutants will be designated by an arc of gold or silver fringe, (according to the colour of their trimmings), connecting the extreme points formed by the ends of the chevron. Sergeants Major and Quartermaster Sergeants will wear one chevron of worsted braid on each arm, above the elbow. Sergeants and senior musicians, one on each arm, below the elbow, and corporals, one on the right arm, above the elbow. They will conform in colour to the button of their regiment or corps. Before this time, an officer’s rank was indicated by epaulettes worn on the shoulder. This





regulation also indicated the first use of the arc as part of the chevron.



Chevrons continued to be worn points downward during the 1800s. The War Department on 9 February 1833, stated, ‘Chevrons will be worn with the point toward the cuff of the sleeves.’ Revised United States regulations in 1861 stated, ''The rank of non-commissioned Officers will be marked by chevrons upon both sleeves of the uniform coat and overcoat, above the elbow, of silk worsted binding on-half inch wide, to be the same color as the edgings of the coat, point down.''



A history timeline for ranks can be found at The Institute of Heraldry.



There are few things in which Soldiers take greater pride than the military accomplishments of their units. Soldiers personally identify with their units, and each unit is individual, with a unique genealogy, history, and reputation. The deeds of courage and valor of unit members past and present give Soldiers justifiable pride, and help create the cohesive concept called “morale” that keeps Soldiers together in stress of combat. These are the identity, traditions, and history that make up the intangible spirit of a unit–its soul.

GEN Gordon R. Sullivan (U.S. Army retired)



2-3. History/Conflicts.

Since 1775, Soldiers have engaged in many actions, including battles, expeditions, campaigns, and contingency operations, such as policing and civil relief efforts. This participation has always been a matter of pride for both the units and the Soldiers involved. Such unit pride has a cohesive effect on Soldiers. The Army has approved 188 campaign streamers, and it designates which units may display the corresponding streamers on their organizational colors. Doing so will represent that unit’s involvement in combat





actions that earned the streamer(s). The entire family of campaign or battle streamers is displayed on the Army flag. The evolution of campaign streamers dates back to the Revolutionary War. For additional information on Army history, refer to the CMH.



Revolutionary War (1775-1783). Following the initial engagements in Massachusetts, the Second Continental Congress established “the American Continental Army” on 14 June 1775. Eight more years of war followed. During the Revolutionary War, the Army earned 16 streamers listed in Table 2-1 (ADP 1, paragraph B-3).



Table 2-1. Revolutionary War streamers





War of 1812. The Army expanded to fight the British in the War of 1812. Soldiers like Winfield Scott trained Army units capable of standing up to the British on the Northern Frontier. Andrew Jackson used regulars and militia at New Orleans to crush the largest British army sent to North America. That victory, coupled with naval successes, established our ability to defend

U.S. territory against the European powers. During the War of 1812, the Army earned six streamers listed in Table 2-2 (ADP 1, paragraph B-4).



Table 2-2. War of 1812 streamers







Mexican War. In 1846, the Army fought Mexico and extended the Nation’s borders to the Pacific Ocean. The war again demonstrated the need for the Regular Army to fight alongside militia forces. During the Mexican War, the Army earned 10 streamers listed in Table 2-3 (ADP 1, paragraph B-5).



Table 2-3. Mexican War streamers





Civil War. In 1861, the Civil War tore the Nation apart. The Army grew dramatically—in size, capability, and technological sophistication—during four years of war. Forced to fight war on a continental scale against superbly led opponents, Union forces developed skills in tactics, operational art, logistics, and inter-Service cooperation that rivaled and sometimes exceeded the great European powers. During the Civil War, the Army earned 25 streamers listed in Table 2-4 (ADP 1, paragraph B-6).



Table 2-4. Civil War streamers







Indian Wars (1867-1891). The Army fought against Native Americans until the beginning of the 20th century. In these bitter conflicts, the Army fought the finest individual warriors it ever faced. It fought with all-volunteer forces, including all-black cavalry and infantry regiments. Serving under the flag of the United States, Native American scouts became vital members of Army units as the wars moved onto the Great Plains. During the Indian Wars, the Army earned 14 streamers listed in Table 2-5 (ADP 1, paragraph B-7).



Table 2-5. Indian Wars streamers





War with Spain. The Spanish-American War of 1898 exposed serious deficiencies with the Army. Mobilization, deployment, and sustainment were a debacle, but fortunately, Spain lacked the resources to counter. After defeating Spanish forces in Cuba and the Philippines, the Army accepted new responsibilities as a global expeditionary force and initiated major reforms to improve combat readiness. During the War with Spain, the Army earned three streamers (ADP 1, paragraph B-8):

Manila.

Puerto Rico.

Santiago.



China Relief Expedition. Now almost forgotten, Soldiers fought in China during the long period of strife at the beginning of the 20th century. During the China Relief Expedition, the Army earned three streamers (ADP 1, paragraph B-9):





Peking.

Tientsin.

Yang-Tsun.



Philippine Insurrection. After seizing the Philippines from Spain, Soldiers fought a bloody counterinsurgency in the jungles of that archipelago. During the Philippine Insurrection, the Army earned 11 streamers listed in Table 2-6 (ADP 1, paragraph B-10).



Table 2-6. Philippine Insurrection streamers





Mexican Expedition. When internal conflict in Mexico spread across the border into the United States, U.S. units deployed on the border and moved into northern Mexico, clashing with Mexican troops and irregular forces. During the Mexican Expedition, the Army earned the “Mexico” streamer (ADP 1, paragraph B-11).



World War I. The war forced our small, lightly equipped Army to expand to unprecedented size. Millions of Americans volunteered or were drafted to create the American Expeditionary Forces (AEF). By 1918, the AEF became a force capable of defeating the German army. During World War I, the Army earned 13 streamers listed in Table 2-7 on page 2-9 (ADP 1, paragraph B-13).





Table 2-7. World War I streamers





World War II. Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Imperial Japan forced the Army to recognize that U.S. security was inseparable from global security. We fielded the largest Army in American history and fought simultaneously in North America, Asia, the Pacific, the Mediterranean, and Northern Europe. Soldiers not only fought the Axis Powers; they rebuilt the once-defeated armies of France, China, and other allied forces. By the end of the war, the Army’s 89 divisions were the best-equipped, best supplied, and most mobile land forces in the world. During World War II, the Army earned 38 streamers listed in Table 2-8 on page 2-10 (ADP 1, paragraph B-14).





Table 2-8. World War II streamers





Korean War and Vietnam War. The conflicts in Korea and Vietnam were limited in terms of objectives from fear of another global war, this time with nuclear weapons. Even the nomenclature of war and the formality of declaring it changed. Both Asian wars forced the United States to deploy large conventional forces and maintain the draft for nearly a quarter century (ADP 1, paragraph B-15).



Korea. During the Korean War, the Army earned 10 streamers listed in Table 2-9 on page 2-11.





Table 2-9. Korean War streamers



CCF Intervention	· UN Offensive	· UN Defensive



First UN Counteroffensive

UN Summer-Fall Offensive

Korea, Summer-Fall 1952

CCF Spring Offensive	· Third Korean Winter



Second Korean Winter  · Korea, Summer 1953







Vietnam. During the Vietnam War, the Army earned 17 streamers listed in Table 2-10.



Table 2-10. Vietnam War streamers





Armed Forces Expeditions. Other post-war conflicts included the military occupation of the Dominican Republic in 1965, combat operations in Grenada in 1983, and forcible removal of Dictator Manuel Noriega in Panama in 1989. During these Armed Forces expeditions, the Army earned three streamers (ADP 1, paragraph B-18):





Dominican Republic

Grenada

Panama



Southwest Asia. A crisis in 1990 erupted after Saddam Hussein’s seizure of Kuwait. The Army quickly mobilized and deployed 500,000 Soldiers equipped with the most advanced equipment. Hussein’s forces were crushed in one of the most lopsided wars in history. During actions in southwest Asia, the Army earned three streamers (ADP 1, paragraph B-19):

Cease-Fire.

Defense of Saudi Arabia.

Liberation and Defense of Kuwait.



Kosovo. Ethnic cleansing in the former Yugoslavia led to the commitment of Army forces in a peace enforcement operation in the province of Kosovo. During operations in Kosovo, the Army earned two streamers (ADP 1, paragraph B-20):

Kosovo Air Campaign.

Kosovo Defense Campaign.



War on Terrorism. In the aftermath of the attacks of September 2001, Army forces deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq. American-led forces drove Saddam Hussein and the Taliban from power in fast-moving campaigns notable for the relatively small numbers of troops and the sophistication of joint operations. American forces, alongside multinational and Iraqi forces, stabilized Iraq to conclude Operations Iraqi Freedom and New Dawn successfully. In Afghanistan, U.S. forces toppled the brutal Taliban regime and denied sanctuary to Al Qaeda and its surrogates. During the War on Terrorism, the Army earned eight streamers listed in Table 2-11 on page 2-13 (ADP 1, paragraph B-21).





Table 2-11. War on Terrorism streamers



Consolidation I	· Iraqi Surge	· National Resolution



Global War on Terrorism

Iraqi Governance

Liberation of Afghanistan

Transition of Iraq







































This page intentionally left blank.



THE ARMY PROFESSION AND ETHIC



The Army has a dual nature—it is both a military department (a part of the Armed Forces) and a military profession. As one of the Nation’s armed services, we carry out the missions assigned to us by the Commander-in-Chief in accordance with the law and regulations created by Congress. The Army is built upon an ethos of trust, which buttresses four other essential characteristics of our profession: military expertise, honorable service, esprit de corps, and stewardship (ADP 1, page 2-1).



3-1. A Profession Built on Trust.

Trust is “assured reliance on the character, ability, strength, or truth of someone or something.” It is the essence of being an effective Soldier. In battle, we primarily fight for one another, not just for our country or some ideal. Heroism is not the action of naturally brave men and women; it originates in the bonds we form with one another and our commitment to each other. Trust between a superior and a subordinate is the second critical aspect of trust; without it, we would not follow orders except from fear of consequences (ADP 1, paragraph 2-1).



We develop and maintain professional knowledge in four broad fields (ADP 1, paragraph 2-9):

Military-technical-doctrine of applying land power along with planning and execution of military operations.

Moral-ethical-applying combat power according to laws and expectations of the citizens.

Political-cultural-cooperation between sister services, foreign militaries, and other government agencies.

Leader development-building leaders to be the qualitative multiplier of any battlefield.





The Army Profession recognizes two communities of practice: the Profession of Arms and the Army Civilian Corps. After taking the oath, each individual (military or civilian) becomes a member of the Army Profession, but an individual is not a professional until certified. Initial certification occurs upon graduation or completion of the first qualifying event such as Advanced Individual Training (ADP 1, paragraph 2-16).



3-2. The Army Profession.

The Army Profession is a unique vocation of experts certified in the ethical design, generation, support, and application of landpower, serving under civilian authority and entrusted to defend the Constitution and the rights and interests of the American people. (ADRP 1, paragraph 1-10).



Trust. The American people place special trust and confidence in the Army as a profession that considers service to the Nation its highest priority. Trust is the bedrock of the Army’s relationship with the American people. Our professional responsibility is to preserve this earned trust. Our moral obligation is not a product of social trust (ADRP 1, paragraph 1-24).



Honorable Service. The Army exists as a profession for one reason: to serve the Nation by supporting and defending the Constitution in a way that upholds the rights and interests of the American people. This is the basis for the Army Ethic, which is the heart of the Army Profession. The Army Ethic defines what it means to serve honorably. Our daily professional responsibility is to contribute honorable service, living by and upholding the Army Ethic in the conduct of our mission, performance of duty, and all aspects of life (ADRP 1, paragraph 1-25).



Military Expertise. As a profession, our military expertise is the ethical design, generation, support, and application of landpower. This is how the Army contributes honorable service in defense of the Nation. Our professional responsibility is to





advance our expert knowledge and skills continually in landpower and to certify Army professionals. To sustain our expertise, all Army professionals must accept the necessity of lifelong learning (ADRP 1, paragraph 1-26).



Stewardship of the Profession. Stewardship is our duty to care for the people, other resources, and the profession entrusted to us by the American people. Our decisions and actions must be right, both for today and for tomorrow. All Army professionals have the duty to be faithful, responsible, and accountable stewards, advancing the Army Profession, strengthening the Army culture of trust, and conveying the legacy we inherited from those who led the way. Senior leaders, the Army’s senior stewards, have a special responsibility to ensure the present and future effectiveness of the Army (ADRP 1, paragraph 1-27).



Esprit de Corps. To persevere and win in war and to prevail through adversity across the range of military operations requires spirited, dedicated professionals bound together in a common moral purpose to honorably serve the Nation. The Army Profession has a deep respect for its history and traditions and strives to achieve standards of individual and collective excellence. Army professionals are a cohesive team where mutual trust is reinforced through shared professional identity—living by and upholding the Army Ethic. This collective commitment fortifies esprit de corps (ADRP 1, paragraph 1-28).



3-3. What Makes “You” an Army Professional?

An Army professional is a member of the Army Profession who meets the Army’s certification criteria in character, competence, and commitment (ADRP 1, paragraph 1-11).



Character. An Army professional’s dedication and adherence to the Army Values and the profession’s ethics as consistently and faithfully demonstrated in decisions and actions (ADRP 1, paragraph 5-14).





Competence. An Army professional’s demonstrated ability to perform his/her duties successfully and to accomplish the mission with discipline and to standard (ADRP 1, paragraph 5-15).



Commitment. The resolve of Army professionals to contribute honorable service to the Nation, to perform their duties successfully with discipline and to standard, and to strive to successfully and ethically accomplish the mission despite adversity, obstacles, and challenges (ADRP 1, paragraph 5-16).



3-4. The Professional Soldier.

Being a professional Soldier means conducting yourself at all times to bring credit upon you, the Army, and the Nation—this is the core of our Army culture. Our Army is a unique society. We have military customs, time-honored traditions, and values that represent years of Army history. Our leaders conduct operations in accordance with laws and principles set by the U.S. Government and international law of armed conflict. Those laws together with Army traditions and Values require honorable behavior and the highest level of moral character.



“An American Professional Soldier is an expert, a volunteer certified in the Profession of Arms, bonded with comrades in a shared identity and culture of sacrifice and service to the Nation and the Constitution, who adheres to the highest ethical standards and is a steward of the future of the profession.”4



3-5. Army Ethic.

The Army, like other professions, regulates the behavior and effectiveness of Army professionals and units through its ethic. The Army Ethic is the evolving set of laws, values, and beliefs, embedded within the Army culture of trust that motivates and guides the conduct of Army professionals bound together in common moral purpose (ADRP 1, paragraph 1-12). The Manual



4 Center for the Army Profession and Ethic, Army Profession of Arms, 7 October 2010.





for Courts Martial (MCM), Army regulations, and policies set the minimum standard for behavior.



3-6. Army Values.

The Profession of Arms involves the disciplined use of legally sanctioned force. It imposes many demands. Still it imparts lasting rewards upon us as Soldiers. While the professional calling of the Soldier is to support and defend the Constitution, defend the security of the Nation and our way of life, the challenge is to learn the profession well enough to accomplish any mission effectively while protecting the force, especially the lives of our fellow Soldiers. We serve around the world in combat, support operations, humanitarian assistance, and training. We are all volunteers.

Among the many reasons we join the Army is the desire to serve our Nation. Army Values coupled with Army Ethic are the foundation of our Profession. Critical to our development is learning about and living by Army Values, when in or out of uniform.



Army Values (Figure 3-1, page 3-6) are the fundamental building blocks that enable us to comprehend what is right or wrong in any situation. They are mutually dependent and we cannot effectively follow one while ignoring another. The core Army Values are loyalty, duty, respect, selfless service, honor, integrity, and personal courage. Fulfilling obligations as an American Soldier is only possible by accepting and living these values. These values inform us of what we need to be, every day, in every action we take. These values also remind us and the world who we are and what we stand for.











Figure 3-1. Army Values

For additional information on Army Values, refer to The United States Army Home Page and GTA 22-06-004 can be found at the U.S. Army Central Army Registry (CAR) website.



3-7. The Soldier’s Creed.

General Eric Shinseki, the 34th Army Chief of Staff, authorized the Warrior Ethos program to establish a core set of principles applicable to our personal or professional life in a signed memorandum back in May of 2003. The next Army Chief of Staff, General Peter Schoomaker on 13 November 2003, approved the Soldier’s Creed. On 22 December 2003, the Infantry magazine first published the Soldier’s Creed found in Figure 3-2 (page 3-7).5 The Soldiers Creed can be found on The United States Army Home Page.









5 Brunye, et al, “Enhancing Warrior Ethos in Initial Entry Training”, Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual Meeting, October 2006.











Figure 3-2. Soldier's Creed

3-8. Army Customs, Courtesies, and Traditions.

The Army is an organization that instills pride in its members because of its history, mission, capabilities, and the respect it has earned in the service of the Nation. A reflection of that pride is visible in the customs, courtesies, and traditions the Army acculturated. Adherence to them connects you to other Soldiers throughout America’s history.





Customs. The Army has its own customs, both official and social. Some customs have been handed down from the past while others are of comparatively recent origin. Nevertheless, customs endure based on their own merits. As a long established social organization, the Army observes a number of customs that add to the interests, pleasures, and graciousness of the Army life.



A custom is an established practice. Customs include positive actions — things you do and taboos — things you avoid. All established arts, trades, and professions, all races of people, all Nations, and even different sections of the same Nation have their own practices and customs by which they govern a part of their lives.



Many Army customs complement procedures required by military courtesy, while others add to the graciousness of Army life. The breach of some Army customs merely brands the offender as ignorant, careless, or ill-bred. Violations of other Army customs, however, will bring official censure or disciplinary action. The customs of the Army are its common law.



Courtesies. Courtesy among members of the Armed Forces is vital to maintaining discipline. Military courtesy means good manners and politeness in dealing with other people. Courteous behavior provides a basis for developing good human relations. The distinction between civilian and military courtesy is that military courtesy was developed in a military atmosphere and has become an integral part of serving in uniform.



Traditions. Tradition is a customary pattern of thought, action, or behavior held by an identifiable group of people. It is information, beliefs, and customs handed down by word of mouth or by example from one generation to another without written instruction. Military traditions are the "Army Way" of doing and thinking. An interesting thing about traditions is that many Army





traditions started out as something quite different from what they are now.



Military tradition gives a Soldier a feeling of pride to understand why things are conducted in the manner that they are. Traditions are expressed in the things done, the uniform worn, and the things said. Many of the words used in the Army are unique and have been added to Soldier’s vocabulary from different parts of the world and at different times in history.



Army traditions are the things that everyone in the Army does, everywhere. Unit traditions are the unique things that Soldiers do in their unit, which other units may or may not do.



Pride. Pride reflects the commitment to master the military-technical, moral, ethical, political-cultural, and leader-human development knowledge, and skills that define Army professionals as experts. Army professionals, who perform under stressful conditions including the chaos and danger of combat, require the highest level of discipline and pride.



3-9. Drill and Ceremonies.

Military history reveals that armies throughout the world participated in some form of drill. The primary value of drill, historically, was to prepare troops for battle. For the most part, the drill procedures practiced were identical to the tactical maneuvers employed on the battlefield (TC 3-21.5, paragraph 1-1).



Drill. The purpose of drill is to enable a commander or noncommissioned officer (NCO) to move his unit from one place to another in an orderly manner. It is also to assist in disciplinary training by instilling habits of precision and response to the leader’s orders, and to provide for the development of all Soldiers in the practice of commanding troops (TC 3-21.5, page 1-1). The following list discusses considerations for drill.





Drill Instructions. Provides the necessary methods used to teach drill to Soldiers, which include the step-by-step, talk through, and by the numbers.

Commands and the Command Voice. Provides the rules for issuing commands and the execution of those commands.

Individual Drill. Provides instructions for stationary movements along with the steps in marching of the individual Soldier.



Commands and Command Voice. Mastering drill instructions, commands and command voice, and individual drill as a Soldier, will provide the foundation needed for squad, platoon and company drills that you will use as you gain future leadership positions. For more information on the history, or how to conduct additional drills at echelons above the individual refer to TC 3-21.5.



Ceremonies. Ceremonies represent the pride, discipline, and teamwork of the Army and in particular, the units that are part of those ceremonies. They are important in developing and maintaining unit pride, building esprit de corps, and preserving tradition. In some cases, military ceremonies are the only contact and impression of the Army that the public experiences. The following list describes the types of ceremonies covered in TC 3-21.5.

Reviews. Originally outlined in Baron Friedrich von Steuben’s Blue Book and practiced by Revolutionary Soldiers. It consisted of four stages: a formation of troops, presentation of honors, inspection, and a march in review. Since then, it has incorporated three additional stages: honors to the Nation, remarks, and a conclusion.

Parades. Originated from the daily activities conducted then to form, organize, instruct, and issue





parole and countersign words to the various guards on duty. Today it is a method whereby unit commanders can inspect troops, present awards, and issue information.

Retreats and Reveilles. In these types of ceremonies, the units honor the daily raising (reveille), and lowering (retreat) of the U.S. flag. In both instances, the ceremonies are conducted at the direction of unit commanders, during the times set by installation commanders.

Funerals. More than any other ceremony, funerals have followed an old pattern as the living honors the brave dead.



NOTE: Civilian Participation in Military Ceremonies. Since its inception at the beginning of the American Revolution, the U.S. Army has always seen the importance of civilian control of the military and participation of civilians in military activities. As a result, military ceremonies are held frequently to honor civilians.










































This page intentionally left blank.

.



SOLDIER ROLES, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES



Becoming an effective part of a team as a Soldier means knowing our role and following the rules for our team. This chapter explains the meaning of those roles, duties, responsibilities, and authority as well as how these apply to every Soldier in the Army.



4-1. Roles.

We (Soldiers) are the Army’s most important resource. Trained, fit, and determined Soldiers win America’s conflicts. Your role as a Soldier derives from your “duties, responsibilities, and authorities” based upon your rank. Adhering to the Army Values and the Soldier’s Creed as well as “achieving competency in your rank and exhibiting the potential for the next higher rank”

/leadership position are inherent in your role as a Soldier (AR 600-8-19, paragraph 1-5). “Each role and responsibility is unique…” and “Every individual in the Army is a member of a team – as leaders or followers” (ADRP 6-22, paragraph 2-3). You are a warrior and a member of a team.



4-2. Obligations

We serve America, our fellow citizens, and protect our way of life. This is a tough occupation and a great responsibility considering the dangerous state of the world. Throughout America’s history, our brothers and sisters who came before us pledged their lives to protect our way of life. It is no different today.



In the oaths of enlistment and commissioning, every Soldier promises to support and defend the Constitution from all enemies and to be faithful to it. Enlisted Soldiers promise to obey the orders of the President and the officers appointed over them. When we take this oath, we put into words our belief in the United States, our form of government, and our way of life. It is a formal statement supporting our freedoms that we will, if necessary, fight any enemy who tries to take those freedoms from us. In taking the





oath, we become subjected to military law as well as civilian law. As Soldiers, we will bear arms in defense of our country until released by lawful authority. These are the fundamental obligations of every Soldier in the U.S. Army.



Human nature and inalienable rights are the same now as when the writers of the Declaration of Independence put those immortal words to paper: “We hold these truths to be self-evident…”6 The dangers our Nation and citizens face now are as real and daunting as then. We have a common bond with those Soldiers who first won our freedom and with those who made the ultimate sacrifice to maintain it. Today we use their examples to inspire and educate others. We all stand a little taller because we share the title, Soldier.



Soldier and comrades from other services, are the Nation’s ultimate guarantor of our way of life. The private who has just completed training and the general, who has served 35 years, have made the same promise: to support and defend the Constitution of the United States. We subscribe to the same Army Values.



Yours is the profession of arms, the will to win, the sure knowledge that in war there is no substitute for victory, that if you lose, the nation will be destroyed, that the very obsession of your public service must be Duty, Honor, Country…

GEN Douglas MacArthur



We all have an important job to do, necessary to the unit’s missions. Soldiers throughout the Army perform the duties of medics, infantrymen, cooks, truck drivers, mechanics, legal clerks, aviators, and other occupations. We bring fuel to the tanks, scout for the enemy, listen to the enemy’s signals, and close in and





6 Declaration of Independence, 4 July 1776.





defeat the enemy. We defend against air attacks, ensure Soldiers are paid accordingly, and process awards to recognize other Soldier’s accomplishments. As important as individual Soldier tasks are, we all know that these efforts support a team and that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Every team has a leader, and that leader is responsible for what the team does or fails to do. That is why obeying orders is the critical essence of discipline.



The Army...mirrors the Nation.

SGT Jack F. Holden



Wherever we deploy, a U.S. Army reservist in Iraq, a national guardsman in Alaska or an active duty Soldier in Texas, our unit and the Soldiers we serve with are part of a team that can only operate effectively when each of its parts works well together. This great team also works with the other services-the Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard-as well as with soldiers from other friendly nations. Our Army assists non-Department of Defense (DOD) governmental agencies and even non-governmental organizations in disaster relief or support operations.



4-3. Oath of Enlistment.

The first oath under the Constitution was approved by Act of Congress dated 29 September 1789 (Sec. 3, Ch. 25, 1st Congress).7 It applied to all commissioned officers, noncommissioned officers, and privates in the service of the United States. The oath came in two parts:



The first of which read: "I, A.B., do solemnly swear or affirm (as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of the United States."8 The second part read: "I, A.B., do solemnly swear or affirm (as the case may be) to bear true allegiance to the United States of America, and to serve them honestly and



7 Center of Military History, Oaths of Enlistment and Oaths of Office, 14 June 2011.

8 Ibid.





faithfully, against all our enemies or opposers whatsoever, and to observe and obey the orders of the President of the United States of America, and the orders of the officers appointed over me."9 The next section of that chapter specified that "the said troops shall be governed by the rules and articles of war, which have been established by the United States in Congress assembled, or by such rules and articles of war as may hereafter by law be established."10

The current approved oath of enlistment (Figure 4-1) became effective on 5 October 1962.





Figure 4-1. Oath of Enlistment

4-4. Relationships.

Soldiers of different grades must be cognizant that their interactions do not create an actual or clearly predictable perception of undue familiarity between officers, NCOs, and enlisted Soldiers. Some examples of these familiarities may include repeated visits to bars, nightclubs, eating establishments, or cohabitation amongst any combination of the three categories (AR



9 Ibid.

10 Ibid.





600-20, paragraph 4-14b). Relationships between Soldiers of different rank are prohibited if they:

Compromise, or appear to compromise, the integrity of supervisory authority, or the chain of command.

Involve, or appear to involve, the improper use of rank or position for personal gain.

Perceived to be exploitative or coercive in nature.

Create an actual or clearly predictable adverse impact on discipline, authority, morale, or the ability of the command to accomplish its mission.



Although several prohibitions of relationships between officers and enlisted exist, there are some exceptions to the rule. For instance, it does not apply to landlord/tenant relationships or to one-time transactions such as the sale of an automobile or house but does apply to borrowing or lending money, commercial solicitation, and any other type of on-going financial or business relationship. In the case of Army National Guards (ARNG) or United States Army Reserve (USAR) personnel, this prohibition does not apply to relationships that exist due to their civilian occupation or employment.



Other prohibited relationships are dating, shared living accommodations other than those directed by operational requirements, and intimate or sexual relationships between officers and enlisted Soldiers. This prohibition does not apply to marriages prior to 1 March 2000. Other exceptions may include:



Relationships that comply with this policy but then become noncompliant due to a change in status of one of the members (for example, two enlisted members are married and one is subsequently selected as a warrant officer).



Personal relationships outside of marriage between members of the ARNG or USAR, when the relationship primarily exists due to civilian acquaintances.





Personal relationships outside of marriage between members of the regular Army and members of the ARNG or USAR when the relationships primarily exist due to civilian association.



We must ensure that these relationships do not interfere with good order and discipline. Commanders will ensure that personal relationships, which exist between Soldiers of different ranks emanating from their civilian careers, will not influence training.



AR 600-20 prohibits gambling between officers and enlisted Soldiers. Some states may also prohibit gambling, regardless of who is playing the game. The Joint Ethics Regulation prohibits certain gambling by DOD employees while on duty or on federally owned or leased property. We must be aware of both Army policy and applicable state law restrictions.



We share the responsibility for maintaining professional relationships. However, in any relationship between Soldiers of different grade or rank the senior member is generally in the best position to terminate or limit the extent of the relationship. Nevertheless, we may be held accountable for relationships that violate this policy.



Commanders should seek to prevent inappropriate or unprofessional relationships through proper training and leading by example. A commander has several options in addressing this issue and may include counseling, reprimand, reassignment, initiate adverse action, or a lawful order to cease. Potential adverse action may include official reprimand, adverse evaluation report(s), nonjudicial punishment, separation, promotion denial, demotion, courts-martial, and a bar to reenlistment.



The intention of these prohibitions are not to preclude normal team building associations, which occur in the context of





activities such as community organizations, religious activities, family gatherings, unit-based social functions, or athletic teams or events.



The relationships between initial entry training trainees and permanent party personnel not required by the training mission are prohibited. This prohibition applies to permanent party personnel without regard to the installation of assignment of the permanent party member or the trainee.



Recruiter and recruit relationships between permanent party personnel assigned or attached to the United States Army Recruiting Command and potential prospects, applicants, members of the delayed entry program, or members of the delayed training program not required by the recruiting mission are prohibited. This prohibition applies to United States Army Recruiting Command personnel without regard to the unit of assignment of the permanent party member and the potential prospects, applicants, delayed entry program or delayed training program members.



4-5. Soldier, NCO and Officer Relationships.

Mutual trust and common goals are the two characteristics that enhance the relationship between enlisted and NCOs. For instance, NCOs have roles as trainers, disciplinarians, communicators, and advisors. When enlisted Soldiers first serve in the Army, their NCOs assist in training and molding them. Doing so ensures Soldiers form professional and personal bonds with their leaders based on mutual trust and common goals.



Every Soldier has a sergeant. Team leaders, squad leaders, platoon sergeants, first sergeants, sergeants major and command sergeants major form the NCO Support Channel. This support channel is responsible for day-to-day operations of the unit, advises the Chain of Command, and trains and leads Soldiers.





No matter how big or small a problem may seem, you should make every attempt to utilize your chain of command or the NCO support channel (as appropriate) to assist in solving your problems. They have the means and resources to communicate your issue directly to the responsible leaders so that it may be handled expeditiously.



The success of the U.S. Army is related directly to the quality of the professional relationships between its Soldiers, NCOs, and officers. The relationship between an individual Soldier, team, squad, and platoon with their NCO/officer is the cornerstone of our Army. When that bond forms, it can have the single most important impact on unit effectiveness and efficiency. Conversely, if that bond is broken, it can have a devastating impact on morale, esprit de corps, readiness, and mission accomplishment.



What should the Soldier expect of an NCO? The Soldier can expect the NCO to:

Have personal integrity and high morals.

Maintain a high state of appearance- be a standard-bearer.

Be fair, be consistent, and have dignity.

Be compassionate and understanding- do not be aloof to the issues and problems of Soldiers.

Have courage in the face of danger.

Have courage and conviction to stand up for what is right, even though it might be hard.

Not to expose themselves or Soldiers to unnecessary risk.

Be accountable for their actions and the actions of their Soldiers.

Endure hardships equal to the hardships experienced by Soldiers.

Have admiration for the Soldier’s honest effort.



What should the NCO expect of a Soldier? The NCO can expect the Soldier to possess similar levels of traits and beliefs to:





Be loyal to their NCO.

Be devoted to the cause of national defense.

Have endurance.

Be motivated or self-motivated.

Have guts.

Have a strong desire to achieve.

Have love of country and duty.

Be ethical.

Be values based.

Be obedient to orders.

Be accountable.

Master their skills.

What should Soldier and NCO expect of an officer? The Soldier and NCO can expect the officer to:

Have personal integrity and high morals.

Maintain a high state of appearance- be a standard-bearer.

Be fair, be consistent, and have dignity.

Be compassionate and understanding- do not be aloof to the issues and problems of Soldiers.

Have courage in the face of danger.

Have courage and conviction to stand up for what is right, even though it might be hard.

Not expose themselves or Soldiers to unnecessary risk.

Be accountable for their own actions and the actions of their Soldiers.

Endure hardships equal to the hardships experienced by Soldiers.



What should the officer expect of an NCO and Soldier? The officer can expect the NCO and Soldier to:

Be loyal to the officer’s position.

Be devoted to the cause of national defense.

Have admiration for the officer’s honest effort.

Have endurance that matches officers.

Have motivation that matches officers.





Have intestinal fortitude and courage.

Have a strong desire to achieve goals that matches officers.

Have a strong spirituality, love of country, and a love of duty that matches officers.

Endure hardships equal to the hardships experienced by officers.

Master expertise in Army programs that supports the needs of Soldiers and their Families.



4-6. Army Civilians and Soldier Relationships.

Army civilians are experienced personnel dedicated to serving the Nation as an integral part of the Army team. They provide mission-essential capability, stability, and continuity during war and peace to support officers, NCOs, and enlisted men and women (ADRP 6-22, paragraph 2-17). The Army Civilian and Soldier relationship enables the Army to continue to accomplish its mission through performance, while contributing to the overall organizational

goals.



4-7. Soldier Conduct.

Department of the Army professionals must place loyalty to country, ethical principles, and law above private gain and other personal interests. The performance of their duties should be in keeping with the highest tradition of the military service to the

U.S. Government (AR 600-20, paragraph 4-17). AR 600-20 and DOD 5500.7-R are the regulatory documents that affect Army standards of conduct. Chapter 3 of AR 600-20 discusses “Army Well-Being,” or “the overarching responsibilities of taking care of people”.



The Code of Conduct (COC) in Figure 4-2 (page 4-11) applies to all members of the U.S. Armed Forces. AR 525-28 explains that the COC is a Soldier’s “moral compass”.









Figure 4-2. Code of Conduct





The COC was established to assist military personnel in captivity as a Prisoner of War. President Eisenhower established the COC in 1955 and outlined the basic responsibilities and obligations of members of the United States Armed Forces. Soldiers should conduct themselves consistently in a manner that avoids discrediting themselves and their country should they become a prisoner of war.



The COC reasserts the purpose of duty, honor, and integrity necessary for an isolated person to survive honorably and with self-esteem intact. Soldiers isolated with civilians and/or contractor personnel should assume the leadership role in these situations, using their skills to enable the survival of all personnel.



Soldiers must take every reasonable step to prevent or limit the exploitation of themselves and the U.S. Government, and often are catalysts for their own release. That is, one who resists successfully may expect captors to lose interest in further exploitation attempts. They must use their judgment as to which actions will increase their chances of returning home with honor and dignity.



Regardless of the situation, Soldiers should make every effort to remain calm and courteous and project personal dignity. This is particularly important during the early stages of internment when the captors may be uncertain of their control. Rude behavior seldom serves the long-term interest of a detainee, and often results in unnecessary punishment. This can jeopardize the survival and severely complicate efforts to gain release.



Detainees or captives should not voluntarily give classified information or materials to their captors. They must resist, to the utmost of their ability, every attempt by their captor to obtain such information.





If Soldiers are captured and held in a group, they must organize in a military manner under the senior military member present (regardless of service). Every effort will be made to establish and sustain communications with other detainees. Military detainees will encourage civilian detainees to participate in the military organization and accept the authority of the senior military member.



The Code of Conduct GTA card is found on the U.S. Army Central Army Registry website.



4-8. Duties.

Every Soldier has certain duties, responsibilities, and levels of authority. Soldiers should know what these are and how they apply to them. One obligation of Soldiers is to carry out their duties to standard and to the best of their abilities. They must bear their responsibilities knowing they are part of a team that only works well when each of its members does their best. If Soldiers are in a leadership position, they must exert authority to build the team and develop their Soldiers. Soldiers depend on their leaders every day to make tough decisions. There are three types of duties (TC 7-22.7):



Specified Duties. Specified duties are those related to jobs and positions. Directives such as Army Regulations, Department of the Army (DA) general orders, the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), Soldier’s manuals, and Military Occupational Specialty (MOS) job descriptions specify these duties. They spell out what Soldiers must do and the standards they must meet.



Implied Duties. Implied duties are not typically provided in writing, but are often necessary to support specified and directed duties. While they may not be directly related to a Soldier’s military occupational specialty (MOS) or assigned job position, they improve the quality of the job and help keep the unit





functioning at an optimum level. In most cases, these duties depend on individual initiative. They improve the work environment and motivate Soldiers to perform because they want to, not because they have to.



Directed Duties. These duties are directives communicated by superiors—orally or in writing—are not found in the unit’s organizational chart, and may not be directly related to a Soldier’s MOS or assigned job position. They may include assignments such as charge of quarters, staff duty, training NCO, sergeant of the guard, and chemical, biological, radiation, & nuclear NCO.



4-9. Responsibilities.

Responsibility “can only reside and inhere in a single individual. You may share it with others, but your portion is not diminished. You may delegate it, but it is still with you. You may disclaim it, but you cannot divest yourself of it. Even if you do recognize it or admit its presence, you cannot escape it. If responsibility is rightfully yours, no evasion, or ignorance, no passing the blame, can shift the burden to someone else”11 Admiral Hyman G. Rickover.



The general responsibilities of a Soldier are as follows:

Obey the lawful orders of NCOs and Officers.

Treat others with dignity and respect.

Complete each task to the very best degree possible and not just to standard.

Maintain a military appearance.

Maintain individual physical fitness standards and readiness.

Maintain individual equipment and clothing to standard.





11 Mack, W., Seymour, H. & McComas, L., The Naval Officer’s Guide, 1 January 1998.





Types of Responsibilities.



Individual Responsibility. As a Soldier, you are responsible for performing your duties to the very best of your ability—and for trying to improve performance. You are responsible for your personal conduct and appearance. You and every other Soldier in the Army assumed this personal responsibility when you took the enlistment oath. For example, every Soldier is responsible for their own physical fitness. Commanders set aside time on the training schedule for physical readiness training (PRT), designate Soldiers to lead PRT and even ensure all Soldiers complete unit runs. However, only you can make yourself physically fit.



Responsibility based on rank. You also have responsibilities based on rank, duty position, and even geographical location.



Accountability. Related to responsibility is accountability. This is the requirement to answer to superiors (and ultimately the American people) for mission accomplishment, the lives and care of assigned Soldiers, and effective and efficient use of Army resources. It also includes an obligation to answer for properly using delegated authority. Leaders are accountable for what they do or fail to do.



Moral Responsibility. You are responsible for treating others with dignity and respect. You may not engage in nor tolerate sexual, racial, or other types of discrimination or harassment. Such behavior is morally wrong in both modern society and our Army of values. In addition, it rapidly destroys unit cohesion and team integrity.



4-10.	Military and Professional Bearing.

The Army is judged on maintaining discipline by the manner in which you wear the uniform, and your overall appearance.





Therefore, a neat and well-groomed appearance by all Soldiers is fundamental to the Army and contributes to building the pride and esprit de corps essential to an effective military force.



Appearance. Commanders play a huge part in assisting Soldiers to maintain the Soldierly appearance required for the good order and discipline of any unit. In the absence of specific procedures or guidelines, they use regulatory guidance in AR 670-1 to ensure all Soldiers under their command meet the standards therein. As a Soldier, you have an individual responsibility to ensure that your appearance reflects the highest level of professionalism at all times (AR 670-1). This includes being physically fit and adhering to the acceptable body composition standards in accordance with AR 600-9.



Fitness. Unit readiness begins with physically fit Soldiers and leaders; operations drain us physically, mentally, and emotionally. While crucial for success in battle, it is important for all members of the Army team to be physically fit, and not just Soldiers. Physically fit people feel more competent and confident, handle stress better, work longer and harder, and recover faster. These attributes provide valuable payoffs in any environment and aids in the accomplishment of the overall mission (ADRP 6-22, paragraph 4-5).



4-11.	Authority.

Authority is the legitimate power of leaders to direct subordinates or to take action within the scope of their position. Military authority begins with the Constitution, which divides it between Congress and the President. Congress has the authority to make laws that govern the Army. The President, as Commander in Chief, commands the Armed Forces.



Types of Authority. Two types of military authority exist: command and general military.





Command Authority. It originates with the President and may be supplemented by law or regulation. A leader exercises the authority over subordinates by virtue of rank and assignment to a position of leadership. Command authority is exercised when a member of the Army is assigned to or assumes a position requiring the direction and control of other members of the Army.



General Military Authority. It originates in oaths of office and enlistment, law, rank structure, traditions, and regulations. This broad-based authority allows leaders to take appropriate corrective actions whenever a member of the armed services commits an act involving a breach of good order and discipline. Army Regulation 600-20, specifically gives this authority to commissioned, warrant, and noncommissioned officers.



Exercising Military Authority. Military authority is exercised promptly, firmly, courteously and fairly. Commanders should consider administrative corrective measures before deciding to impose nonjudicial punishment. Trial by court-martial is ordinarily inappropriate for minor offenses unless lesser forms of administering discipline would be ineffective (AR 600-20, paragraph 4-6).



On-the-Spot Corrections. Generally, a Soldier requires an on-the spot correction for one of two reasons: the Soldier does not know the standard, or they knowingly violate the standard. If the latter occurs, the violation should be addressed immediately and when appropriate, should be followed-up with a call to the Soldier's chain of command. On-the-spot corrections are not only issued from the leader to the subordinate, but also include tactful corrections from subordinates to leaders and corrections between peers. It is your responsibility to understand and adhere to the standard.





Corrective Training. Corrective training is for Soldiers who have demonstrated that they need and would benefit from additional instruction or practice in a particular area. Care must be taken to give training that has a reasonable relationship to the deficiency. Extra training and instruction, if timely and appropriate, may correct deficiencies and eliminate the need for formal disciplinary measures in the future. Extra training and instruction are not to be used as punitive measures. You must distinguish extra training and instruction from punishment or even the appearance of punishment. Soldiers should have extra training or instruction only as long as they need it to correct deficiencies.



Delegation of Authority. Just as Congress and the President cannot personally direct every aspect of the Armed Forces and operations, commanders at all levels cannot directly handle every action. To meet the organization’s goals, these commanders must delegate authority to subordinate commissioned and noncommissioned officers and, when appropriate, to an Army Civilian. These subordinate leaders, in turn, may further delegate that authority.



LEADERSHIP



As Soldiers and Army team members, we must understand that leadership is crucial towards mission accomplishment. This chapter allows you to self-reflect and identify what you may need to work on in becoming a better Soldier and a competent leader when you are assigned to a position of leadership.



5-1. Soldier Leadership Cycle.

To be an effective leader, a Soldier must master their skill level-1 competencies. This includes tactical and technical expertise with honesty and confidence. If you are a Soldier not assigned to a leadership position, you should recognize that your role within the unit is not limited to blindly following instructions, and you should strive to develop and/or hone your leadership skills. Leadership is a process that begins at the lowest level; you need to recognize that these skills never stop evolving. This includes but is not limited to previous employment, experience outside the military, education, and vocational aptitude. Figure 5-1 (page 5-2) shows how the Soldier Leadership Cycle is always evolving.









Figure 5-1. Soldier Leadership Cycle



Self-Awareness. Self-awareness is about preparing oneself. Self-awareness enables Soldiers to recognize their strengths and weaknesses. As a Soldier, you must be able to form accurate self-perceptions and understand how others perceive you and alter these perceptions as appropriate. Self-awareness is about developing a clear, honest, picture of your capabilities and limitations. To be able to grow into an effective leader, you must consider self-reflection, the mentorship of your leaders and the leadership that you aspire to emulate. A Soldier should ask themselves the following:

Who are you in any given situation?

How do you perform under stress?

What are your productive and counterproductive habits?

Do you make honest and selfless decisions?





Do you understand the bigger picture?

How do you interact with your peers?

Do you display a leadership presence?

What tendencies were you born with and how have these tendencies matured?

What influences you to grow, adapt, and develop?

What are you learning? What are some positive examples?

Are you improving? Are you growing as an individual and a leader?

What are your traits and how do they fit into the Army?

What type of personality are you? Are you capable of shouldering the responsibility?



Seek Self Development through Education. You need to seek every opportunity for self-development. This includes but is not limited to military education (noncommissioned officer professional development system, civilian education, and vocational learning from accredited civilian institutions. Growth through learning is a personal responsibility that requires personal motivation, drive, fortitude, and discipline.



Attributes of a Soldier. Soldiers carry themselves in such a way that they convey their intent and character. The Army Professional is not just another job, but also a calling that provides a unique and vital service to society. We are a unique vocation of experts, certified by the profession, bonded with comrades through

shared identity, serving within our culture of trust. The attributes of a Soldier are not unlike that of a leader, they include:





Character: Army Values, Empathy, Warrior Ethos, Oath, Discipline.

Presence: Military and Professional Bearing, Fitness, Confidence, Resilience.

Intellect: Mental, Agility, Sound Judgment, Innovation, Interpersonal Tact, Expertise.



Competencies of a Soldier. Character, presence, and intellect will build a trust relationship from your leader to you. This relationship will promote good communication, leadership opportunities, and a common goal. As you progress through the ranks, you will develop skills critical to your first opportunity as a leader. You need to be loyal, competent in your MOS and tactical skills, and seek leadership prospects. Paragraph 9-9 provides more details on the nine 21st-century Soldier competencies.

Developing Leadership Potential. You need to adhere to the Army standards; always doing the correct action at the right time. Mastering the basic Soldier functions develops the foundation for leadership behavior and establishes leadership behaviors that blend with the standards of the Army.

Be a mentor among your peers.

Develop critical thinking skills.

Be a problem solver (do not stop at the first obstacle).

Share ideas and concepts from learned experiences.

Promote innovation, be a team player.

Develop mental agility.

Develop flexible and adaptive ways to approach issues.

Demonstrate professionalism and maturity.

Demonstrate leadership presence.

Communicate effectively.



Seek Responsibility in Leadership. Whether a PVT or SPC, you must recognize your personal responsibilities for self-development in leadership. Often there is a misconception that it is the supervisor’s responsibility to develop those skills in you;





however, you have more impact on your career than any supervisor. The role of the Soldier is evolving; as a result, the Army is looking for mature, self-starters who exhibit leadership potential early on. Your role is to:

Seek opportunities to excel.

Accept responsibilities for all actions, right or wrong.

Develop the capacity to see the implied task.

Display maturity and discipline to standards.

Embrace the Soldier first philosophy.

Seek upward mobility through education both military and civilian.

Seek to break the mode of a follower and adopt behavior commensurate with a professional.

Master your technical and tactical competencies.

Self-awareness is critical to you and is imperative to growing into a mature and responsible leader. Soldiers that understand the “bigger picture” will excel in positions of greater responsibility. Understanding your maturity level, leadership capacity, and personal behavior is critical to correcting potentially flawed leadership habits. Judgment by your peers and potentially your subordinates will start now. Correct your behaviors before they become bad habits.



5-2. Chain of Command.

The Army exercises a single chain of command. Through this chain of command, leaders issue orders and instructions and convey policies. An effective chain of command is a two-way communication channel. Its members do more than transmit orders; they carry information from within the unit or organization back up to its leader. They furnish information about how things are developing, notify the leader of problems, and provide requests for clarification and help.



Leaders at all levels use the chain of command to keep their people informed and lend support. They continually facilitate





the process of gaining the necessary information and solving problems.



Beyond conducting their normal duties, NCOs train Soldiers, advise commanders on individual Soldier readiness, and give their assessment of the training needed to ensure unit readiness. Due to the NCO’s hands-on-involvement, officers and Army Civilian leaders find it necessary to consult their command sergeant major, first sergeant, or NCO in charge before implementing policy. Continual communications are essential to avoid duplicating instructions or issuing conflicting orders. Continuous and open lines of communication enable leaders to plan freely; make decisions, and conduct future training and operations.



Table 5-1 on page 5-7 provides a place to record your current chain of command.





Table 5-1. Chain of Command





5-3. NCO Support Channel.

This channel is used for exchanging information; providing reports; issuing instructions, which are directive in nature; accomplishing routine but important activities in accordance with command policies and directives. Most often, it is used to execute established policies, procedures, and standards involving the performance, training, appearance, and the conduct of enlisted personnel. Its power rests with the chain of command.





The NCO support channel parallels and reinforces the chain of command. NCO leaders work with and support the commissioned and warrant officers of your chain of command. For the chain of command to work efficiently, the NCO support channel must operate effectively. At battalion level and higher, the NCO support channel begins with the command sergeants major, extends down through first sergeants, platoon sergeants, and ends with section chiefs, squad leaders, or team leaders.



The connection between the chain of command and the NCO support channel is the senior NCO. Commanders issue orders through the chain of command, but senior NCOs must know and understand the orders to issue effective implementing instructions through the NCO support channel. Although the first sergeant and command sergeant major are not part of the formal chain of command, leaders should consult them on all enlisted Soldier matters and individual training.



Successful leaders have good relationships with their senior NCOs. Successful commanders have a good leader-NCO relationship with their first sergeants and command sergeants major. The need for such a relationship applies to platoon leaders and platoon sergeants as well as to staff officers and NCOs. Senior NCOs have extensive experience in successfully completing missions and dealing with enlisted Soldier issues. In addition, senior NCOs can monitor organizational activities at all levels, take corrective action to keep the organization within the boundaries of the commander’s intent, or report situations that require the attention of the officer leadership. A positive relationship between officers and NCOs creates conditions for success.



Table 5-2 on page 5-9 provides a place to record your current NCO Support Channel.





Table 5-2. NCO Support Channel





5-4. Developmental Counseling.

You may or may not intend to make the Army a career, but it is important to the future of the Army that you develop and prepare to assume positions of greater responsibility. This is why the Army puts so much effort into developing and training to lead. This section will provide you with a basic understanding of the importance of developmental counseling and its relation to professional development. The demands of combat may put even junior enlisted Soldiers into leadership positions in stressful situations. Because of this, the Army works hard to ensure you reach your full potential and prepares you for greater responsibility.



Purpose. Developmental counseling is a type of communication leaders use to empower and enable Soldiers. It is





much more than providing feedback and or direction. It is a form of communication aimed at developing your ability to achieve individual and unit goals. Leaders counsel you to let you know what it takes to be successful today and tomorrow. You should understand that effective counseling is one of the ways to learn and grow. Leaders owe you the best possible roadmap to success.

Leadership doctrine of the Army, contained in ADRP 6-22, contains detailed information about counseling. Leaders help you solve complex problems by guiding you to workable solutions through effective counseling.



Counseling Process. The developmental counseling process consists of four stages:



Identify the need for counseling.

Develop a clear purpose.

Assess the situation and develop possible desired outcomes.

Prepare for contingencies that arise during the counseling session.



Prepare for counseling.

Schedule the time.

Notify the counselee well in advance.

Organize information.

Outline the components of the counseling session.

Plan counseling strategy.

Establish the right atmosphere.



Conduct the counseling session. Do this by:

Opening the session.

Discussing the issue.

Developing a plan of action (to include the

leader’s responsibilities).





Record and close the session.



Follow up. Do this by:

Implementing a support plan of action.

Assessing the plan of action.



Types of Counseling. Counseling serves many purposes. Each type of counseling has a unique goal or desired outcome and sometimes uses a different approach. In some cases, a specific event may trigger a need for developmental counseling. In all cases, the goal is to improve the team’s performance by helping you become a more effective member of the team. You should expect to be actively involved in the developmental counseling process. The leader assists in identifying your strengths and weaknesses.



Event counseling. Event-oriented counseling involves a specific event or situation. It may precede events such as participating in promotion boards, attending training courses, and preparing for deployment or redeployment. It also addresses events such as noteworthy duty performance, an issue with performance or mission accomplishment, or a personal issue (ATP 6-22.1, paragraph 1-5).



Specific instances. Often counseling is tied to specific instances of superior or substandard duty performance. The leader uses the counseling session to convey to you whether or not your performance met the standard and what you did right or wrong. Successful counseling for specific performance occurs as close to the event as possible. Leaders should counsel you for exceptional as well as substandard duty performance (ATP 6-22.1, paragraph 1-6).



Reception and integration. Army leaders should counsel you when you are new to the organization. Reception and integration counseling serves two important purposes:





It identifies and helps alleviate any issues or concerns you may have, including any issues resulting from the new duty assignment.

It familiarizes new team members with organizational standards, roles, and assignments (ATP 6-22.1, paragraph 1-8).



Crisis. Crisis counseling focuses on your immediate short-term needs and assists you through a period of shock after receiving negative news, such as the notification of the death of a loved one. Leaders may assist by listening and providing appropriate assistance. This may include coordinating for external agency support, such as obtaining emergency funding for transportation or putting you in contact with a chaplain (ATP 6-22.1, paragraph 1-10).



Referral. Referral counseling occurs when issues are beyond the capability or expertise of your leaders. Referral counseling helps you work through personal situations that may affect performance. It may or may not follow crisis counseling. Referral counseling aims at preventing a challenge or issue from becoming unmanageable for you. Army leaders assist by identifying issues in time and referring you to the appropriate outside resources, such as Army Community Services, a chaplain, or an alcohol and drug counselor (ATP 6-22.1, paragraph 1-11).



Promotion. Army leaders must conduct promotion counseling for all specialists, corporals, and sergeants who are eligible for advancement without waivers (see AR 600-8-19). Army regulations require Soldiers within this category to receive initial (event-oriented) counseling when they attain full promotion eligibility and then periodic (performance/professional growth) counseling thereafter. Soldiers not recommended for promotion must also be counseled as to why they were not recommended and should address these shortcomings and plans of action to overcome the identified shortcomings (ATP 6-22.1, paragraph 1-12).





Transition. Transition counseling assists you if you are demobilizing, separating, or retiring from active duty. Transition counseling prepares you for employment, education, and other post-service opportunities and benefits. Transition requires planning throughout your service starting with identifying military and long-term goals at the first unit of assignment (ATP 6-22.1, paragraph 1-13).



Adverse separation. Adverse separation counseling may involve informing a Soldier of the administrative actions available to the commander in the event substandard performance continues and of the consequences associated with those administrative actions (see AR 635-200) (ATP 6-22.1, paragraph 1-15).



Performance counseling. Performance counseling is the review of a subordinate’s duty performance during a specified period. You and your leader should jointly establish performance objectives and clear standards for the next counseling period. The counseling focuses on your potential, strengths, and areas to improve on. Effective counseling includes providing specific examples of strengths and areas needing improvement and providing guidance on how you can improve your performance (ATP 6-22.1, paragraph 1-17).



Professional growth counseling. Professional growth counseling includes planning for the accomplishment of your individual and professional goals. During the counseling, your leader and you should conduct a review to identify and discuss your strengths and weaknesses and to create an individual development plan that builds upon those strengths and compensates for (or eliminates) shortcomings. Soldiers, in collaboration with their first-line leaders, will create their individual development plan in ACT within 30 calendar days (180 for reserve component personnel) of arrival at their duty station to track their goals and opportunities. Annually, and in conjunction





with regularly scheduled developmental counseling, leaders will review and approve individual development plans to maintain visibility over accomplishments and goals. The individual development plan functionality can be found at your personal ACT website. Your leaders can assist you in prioritizing development efforts based upon those perceived strengths and weaknesses (ATP 6-22.1, paragraph 1-20).



5-5. Discipline.

Discipline is the glue that holds units together in order to accomplish assigned missions and is the culmination of the genuine acceptance of the Army Values. This results in self-discipline, without which there cannot be military discipline. Discipline, then, is an individual quality that allows you to see that despite your own preferences, you must accomplish assigned jobs well to ensure the team can execute its tasks.



Discipline is based on pride in the profession of arms, on meticulous attention to details, and on mutual respect and confidence. Discipline must be a habit so engrained that it is stronger than the excitement of battle or the fear of death.

General George S. Patton, Jr (ADRP 1)



Discipline is not blindly following orders or imposing punishment for infractions but is something leaders and Soldiers build together. It is the desire to do what is right even if it is difficult or dangerous. It does not matter if the “boss” is not watching; the task will be executed properly. It is the desire to accomplish the task well, not because of fear of punishment, but because of pride in one’s unit and oneself. Discipline means putting the task of the unit-the team ahead of personal desires. Discipline is based on pride in the Army Profession, on meticulous attention to details, and on mutual respect and confidence.



Discipline in the Army is one of the most basic elements of warfighting. Its purpose is to train you so you can execute





orders quickly and intelligently under the most difficult conditions. Insistence on performing tasks properly enhances military discipline. For example, it means ensuring you wear your uniform properly, march well or repeating tasks until you perform them correctly. This is not harassment or punishment. Proper and prompt execution of orders will save lives in combat. This in no way means you should not exercise initiative to solve a problem or to ensure the job is done correctly.



Discipline is essential when urgent orders are received. Success or failure often depends on the immediate, correct execution of tasks that may result in the deaths of the Soldiers carrying them out. However, these successes are made possible through good training that breeds confidence within units. Confidence in self, fellow Soldiers, and leaders, all reinforce the discipline to finish the job, regardless of the difficulty of the task.



Discipline in routine conduct such as saluting, police call, and physical training, can make discipline much easier to achieve when responding to more difficult conduct such as advancing under fire, refusing an illegal order, or moving a wounded Soldier to safety. That is why the Army insists on training to standard. It starts with self-discipline but grows with pride in the unit and confidence in your leaders and other Soldiers’ abilities. A disciplined unit is made up of Soldiers who trust each other and know they can accomplish any mission they are given. A disciplined unit is made up of Soldiers who will not let each other down nor even consider failure. They do not walk pass a deficiency; they do something about it.







































This page intentionally left blank.



TRAINING MANAGEMENT



This chapter discusses training management and how it applies to Soldiers’ development using the institutional, operational and self-development domains.



6-1. Unit Training Management.

Training management starts with the unit mission. From the mission, unit leaders develop the mission essential task list (METL). The METL is an unconstrained statement of the tasks required to accomplish wartime missions. The availability of resources does not affect METL development, but resources for training are constrained and compete with other missions and requirements. Therefore, leaders develop the long-range, short-range, and near-term training plans to utilize available resources to train for proficiency on METL tasks (ADP 7-0).



Individual Tasks. An individual task is a clearly defined, observable, and measurable activity accomplished by an individual. It is the lowest behavioral level in a job or duty that is performed for its own sake. An individual task supports one or more collective tasks or drills and often supports another individual task. It must be specific and have a definite beginning and ending. It is generally performed in a relatively short time; however, there may or may not be a specific time limit.



Collective Tasks. Collective tasks are clearly defined, observable, and measurable activities or actions that require organized team or unit performance, leading to the accomplishment of a mission or function. Collective task accomplishment requires the performance to standard of supporting individual or collective tasks. A collective task also describes the performance required of a unit under the conditions identified by the training developer to replicate the anticipated operating environment. The output of the development of the collective task is the training and evaluation outlines (T&EOs).





These provide summary information concerning collective task training, as well as individual and leader training tasks that support the successful execution of collective training. T&EOs also provide information concerning evaluation standards applicable to a training situation (ADRP 1-03).



Shared collective task. A shared collective task is a task that is doctrinally performed in the same manner by multiple types of units, and provides multi-echelon training opportunities for multiple career management fields. This ensures that Army units train and fight the same way and we can efficiently consolidate our efforts in response to conflict. Shared collective tasks must be represented through only one task to ensure Army-wide standardized training. Examples of appropriate shared collective tasks include; Reconnoiter a Route, Perform Passive Air Defense Measures, Conduct an Attack, and Conduct a Tactical Convoy.



Unique collective task. A unique collective task is a clearly defined collective task that provides training opportunities for a single career management field. The designated proponent is solely responsible for the development and maintenance of a unique collective task. Tasks may be incorporated into other proponents’ unit task lists for use when the assigned career management fields are outside the unit’s proponency. An example of a unique collective task is Install Underground Pipeline.



Mission Essential Task List (METL). A METL is a compilation of mission essential tasks that a unit performs based on its design, equipment, manning, and table of organization and equipment (TOE)/table of distribution and allowances (TDA) mission. Due to training time and other essential resources are often limited, units cannot train all the METL tasks to proficiency at once. Based on the unit mission and higher commander’s guidance, commanders use the unit METL as a primary source to





select the few, most important supporting collective tasks to train (ADRP 7-0).



6-2. Training and Soldier Development.

Our Army is the best in the world in conducting unified land operations in support of unified action. This could only be possible through tough, realistic, standards-based, and execution of performance-oriented training. The foundation of unit readiness is directly related to the proficiency of you and your fellow Soldiers in performing specific tasks related to your assigned duty position and skill level. Training and education will prepare you to perform assigned tasks to standard, accomplish your mission and duties, and survive on the battlefield. This will occur during both institutional and unit training. Soldier development is the deliberate, continuous, sequential, and progressive process that will continue throughout the span of your career. Your development will encompass the training, education, and experience you will gain from all the schools that your unit will be sending you to, and may not include the ones you may gain from your own program of self-development. In always doing your best during training, you are developing key skills and attributes necessary to succeed in any undertaking. Your development begins with a candid assessment of your strengths and weaknesses and then, with your supervisor, develops a program to build on your strengths and improve your weaknesses (ADRP 7-0).



6-3. Three Domains of Soldier Development.

One of the great aspects of our Army is the development of future leaders from within its ranks. As you gain training knowledge and experience, you will also develop the skills necessary to lead other Soldiers. The enlisted Soldiers entering service today will be the leaders of tomorrow. Still, the necessities of combat may require you to lead now before you are ready. Therefore, as time permits you should start thinking ahead about your short and long-term goals and how they may affect your decision as a Soldier in the Army. Should you decide to continue serving and become much





more than just a Soldier, your quest in becoming a leader lies within the three domains of development: Institutional, Operational, and Self-Development (ADRP 7-0).



The Institutional Domain. This domain includes initial military training, professional military education, Civilian Education System (CES), and functional training for you as well as Army civilians (TC 7-22.7, paragraph 6.4). This is considered the institutional force and where your training will begin. It will provide courses/events based on individual tasks/topics at institutions to ensure you meet established learning standards.



The Operational Domain. You will enter the operational Army the moment you are permanently assigned to a unit. There, you are integrated into teams and build on the foundation of your skills learned in institutions. In this domain, you will master individual and collective tasks that support your unit’s Mission Essential Task List (METL).



Self-Development Domain. Self-development is just as important as other individual training. It allows you to expand your knowledge and experience to supplement training in the institutional or operational training domains. The Army provides many enablers to assist you in self-development, which maximizes your strengths, reduces weaknesses, and enables your developmental goals. Self-development will provide you the opportunity to take initiative for advancement in current and future positions and to achieve personal excellence.



6-4. Physical Readiness Training.

The goal of the Army Physical Fitness Training Program is to develop you in order to be physically capable and ready to perform your duties on the battlefield. To reach this goal, leaders use the physical readiness training (PRT) system to aim first at developing your strength, endurance, and mobility. You must be able to perform required duties and sustain activities across the range of





military operations. It is a known fact that Soldiers trained through PRT demonstrate their mobility to apply strength and endurance to the performance of basic military skills such as marching, speed running, jumping, vaulting, climbing, crawling, combatives, and water survival. These skills are essential to your safety and your performance not only in training, but also, and more importantly, during combat operations (FM 7-22, page 2-1).



Army Physical Fitness Test. The intent of the Army Physical Fitness Test (APFT) is to provide an assessment of the PRT program. Physical fitness testing is designed to ensure the maintenance of a base level of physical fitness essential for every Soldier, regardless of Army MOS or duty assignment. The APFT consists of push-ups, sit-ups, and a 2-mile run—conducted in that order—on the same day. In accordance with AR 350-1, all Soldiers must attain a score of at least 60 points on each event and an overall score of at least 180 points. Height and weight screening to meet AR 600-9 standards may be conducted on the day of the record APFT or up to 30 days before or after the record test (FM 7-22, page A-1).



Army Body Composition Program. You are subject to many demands and challenges that may affect individual readiness. The ABCP provides commanders a systematic approach to enforcing military standards across the unit, while supporting you with the resources you need to return to an optimum level of individual readiness. You are required to meet the prescribed body fat standard, as indicated in AR 600-9, Appendix B. You will be screened every six months, at a minimum, to ensure compliance with ABCP. In order to ensure the ABCP does not interfere with your performance on the APFT, commanders and supervisors are encouraged to allow you a minimum of 7 days between APFT and weigh-in, if feasible (AR 600-9).







































This page intentionally left blank.

.



SUPPLY OPERATIONS



This chapter discusses the classes of supply and the importance of accountability for all Army property whether it is installation, unit, or individual property.



7-1. Property Accountability.

All persons entrusted with Government property to include Organizational Clothing and Individual Equipment (OCIE) are responsible for its use, care, custody, and safekeeping. OCIE includes your initial clothing allowance and your TA-50 (organizational clothing and equipment issued by the installation central issue facility). When a person assumes accountability for property that is remotely located, records must be maintained to show the location of the property and the persons charged with its care and safekeeping. Vouchers for the issue or expenditure of property that are not specifically authorized by regulations or authorization tables will give the reason for the transaction and identify the commander who directed it.



Army property will not be used for any private purpose except as authorized by Headquarters, Department of the Army (HQDA).



No Government property will be sold, given as a gift, loaned, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of unless specifically authorized by law. Items replaced in-kind and payments made under the provisions of AR 735-5, paragraph 12–1 and paragraph 12–2 for lost, damaged, or destroyed Army property do not constitute a sale of Army property. Title to such property remains with the Government. Soldiers and Army Civilians can be held accountable for the cost of replacing lost or damaged Army property under AR 735-5. An investigation to determine this is called financial liability investigations of property loss.





Giving or accepting an issue document, hand receipt, or another form of receipt to cover articles that are missing, or appear to be missing, is prohibited.



Property documents and records maintained for stock record accounts need not show the manufacturer’s serial numbers unless specifically required by Army policy. Serial numbers for property in use will be shown on property books and property book supporting documents under AR 710–2.



Army property will not be loaned or leased except as specifically authorized in Defense Finance and Accounting Service-Indianapolis Center Regulation 37–1, AR 405–45, AR 700–131, or other appropriate regulations.



Military members or Civilian employees of the Army who occupy Government quarters, or who have been issued furnishings for use in Family quarters, must properly care for such property. Military members and Civilian employees occupying Government quarters are responsible for the damage caused by their dependents’ negligence to the quarters and the furnishings and equipment contained therein.



The requisitioning or assembling of excess repair parts and/or components to create an unauthorized end item is prohibited. All excess equipment and supplies will be turned in to the appropriate supply support activity in accordance with AR 710–2.



7-2. Accounting for Army Property.

Army property is all property under the control of the Department of the Army (DA) except property accounted for as owned by a nonappropriated fund activity. Appropriated funds are monies set aside by Congress to fund different expenditures such as procurement, operation & maintenance and military pay.

Nonappropriated funds are monies derived from sources other than





congressional appropriations and commissary surcharge funds, which are used to support Morale, Welfare, and Recreation programs. It must be accounted for on a property book account unless specifically exempted by an AR. Property leased by an Army activity is considered Army property for accounting purposes. Property loaned to a non-Army activity remains Army property. Real property accounts for all assets on the installation regardless of who funded the construction or pay for sustainment (except privately owned) will be reflected in the installation real property inventory (AR 735-5).



Property. All property (including historical artifacts, art, flags, organizational property, and associated items) acquired by the Army from any source, whether bought, scrounged, or donated, must be accounted for accordingly. The accounting will be continuous from the time of acquisition until the ultimate consumption or disposal of the property occurs and supporting documents will be maintained for all property.



Types of property. For property book accounting purposes, there are two types of property;



Organization. Organization property is authorized to the TOE, modified table of organization and equipment, or deployable/TDA units by their authorization documents. TOEs are designed to contain minimum mission essential wartime requirements for the accomplishment of the unit’s doctrinal wartime mission. Personnel and equipment requirements are structured to optimize personnel effectiveness and equipment utilization. A modified table of organization and equipment is one that refines the TOE to contain maximum mission essential wartime requirements to accomplish the unit’s wartime mission. Units that do not have a wartime mission will not have a TOE and a TDA is created to authorize personnel and equipment (AR 71-32). For modified table of organization and equipment units, U.S. Army Information Systems Command and U.S. Army Intelligence





and Security Command TDA activities, the following is also organization property:

OCIE in common table of allowances (CTA) 50-900, table 4.

Items identified as deployable by CTA 50-909, Appendix B.

Items in AR 840-10.

Special tools and test equipment.

Basic loads.

Books.

Unclassified Controlled Cryptographic Items.

Items authorized by section III supplement of the deployable/ mobilization TDA.



Installation. All other property regardless of how authorized, not listed above, is installation property and will be accounted for accordingly.



Property is categorized for financial accounting and reporting purposes as tangible property both real and personal property.



Real property consists of lands and permanent structures.



Personal property is made up of equipment and other nonexpendable supplies, collectively called nonconsumable supplies, all consumable supplies, and relocatable buildings.



All Army property, except real property, will be classified for property accounting purposes as expendable, durable, or nonexpendable.



Expendable or durable items require no formal accounting after issue to the user level unless these items specifically fall under the criteria of paragraph 7-7b and AR 710-2.





Durable (D) property is personal property that is not consumed in use and that does not require property book accountability but, because of its unique characteristics, requires control when issued to the user. Expendable (X) property is property that is consumed in use, or loses its identity in use. It includes items not consumed in use, with a unit cost of less than $500, and having a controlled inventory item code (CIIC) of "unclassified (U)" assigned. The CIIC code determines the security classification, the security risk and/or the pilferage controls of materiel items in the supply system.



Nonexpendable property will require formal property book accounting at the user level. Nonexpendable property is personal property that is not consumed in use and that retains its original identity during the period of use.



All durable property will be controlled at the user level using hand-receipt procedures or managed using inventory lists.



7-3. Inventories of Personal Property.

The following inventories are required for OCIE issued to Soldiers (DA Pam 710-2-1).



Assignment to unit. Use the methods in DA Pam 710-2-1, paragraph 10-8, Issue Procedures (in processing).



Prior to clearing the installation. Use the methods in DA Pam 710-2-1, paragraph 10-10, turn-in procedures (out-processing).



When a Soldier is placed in an absent without leave status, hospitalized while on leave, extended temporary duty (defined as 30 days or more), or confined in a military or civilian correctional facility, their OCIE should be inventoried and secured. This inventory is required only when the Soldier has not already





secured OCIE in unit facilities, authorized on or off-post quarters (other than troop billets) or Family housing.



The following procedures will be used when a Soldier is returned from AWOL, hospital, or extended temporary duty.



Have the Soldier conduct a joint inventory with the commanders designated supply representative of property secured during his/her absence.



Have the supply representative prepare adjustment documents for any items for which the Soldier is financially liable.



Have the Soldier sign a release statement posted to the inventory form for items being issued.



Have the Soldier go to the Central Issue Facility point with adjustment documents for reissue of shortages.



The inventory outlined in paragraph c above should be initiated when a Soldier is dropped from the rolls, hospitalized for more than 60 days, ordered to PCS while on emergency leave, or confined in a military or civilian facility for more than 60 days. These items must be turned in to the OCIE issue point or central issue facility.



7-4. Classes of Supply.

There are 10 established classes of supply. The following are definitions and examples of each class of supply:



CLASS I. Subsistence items and gratuitous health and welfare items (B-rations, meals ready to eat, and fresh fruits and vegetables).



CLASS II. Equipment, other than principal items, prescribed in authorization and allowance tables (individual





equipment, clothing, tentage, tool sets, and administrative supplies).



CLASS III. Petroleum oils and lubricants, further defined as packaged and bulk petroleum oils and lubricants. Class III (packaged) includes hydraulic and insulating oils, chemical products, antifreeze compounds, and compressed gases. Class III (bulk) includes multi-fuels and gasoline.



CLASS IV. Construction and barrier materials (lumber, sandbags, and barbed wire).



CLASS V. Ammunition such as small arms, artillery projectiles, antitank missiles, explosives, mines, bombs, and special ammunition including chemical and nuclear munitions.



CLASS VI. Personal-demand items normally purchased through the exchange system such as candy and soft drinks. Class VI items are normally requisitioned and distributed with Class I items.



CLASS VII. Major end items (vehicles, self-propelled artillery pieces, missile launchers, aircraft, and major weapon systems).



CLASS VIII. Medical materiel (including medical peculiar repair parts).



CLASS IX. Repair parts and components, including kits and assemblies, and items required for support of all equipment (batteries, spark plugs, and fuel lines).



CLASS X. Materiel required to support civil affairs operations such as a commercial-design tractor for use by local civilians. Supplies are further divided into subclasses. These subclasses denote requirements, such as aviation parts—designated





as Class IX (A) used by system-specific assets. Class IX (A) repair parts are used to facilitate aircraft maintenance.



Supply procedures and policies are addressed in AR 710-2, DA Pam 710-2-1, and DA Pam 710-2-2.



ARMY PROGRAMS



The Army provides programs available to assist you and your Family as well as arming you with the necessary knowledge to aid in caring for them. This chapter identifies those programs and expounds on them a little further. Additional information on these programs can be found online at either the My Army One Source or the My Army Benefits websites.



8-1. American Red Cross.

The American Red Cross exists to provide compassionate care to those in need. Its network of generous donors, volunteers and employees share a mission of preventing and relieving suffering, at home and around the world through five key service areas: disaster relief, supporting America’s military Families, lifesaving blood, health and safety services, and international services. One of the main services that the American Red Cross provides to Soldiers is notification of an emergency such as the death or serious illness of an immediate family member, as well as the good news of the birth of a Soldier’s child or grandchild.



It is paramount that you understand this process as it can assist you and your commander in decisions regarding emergency leave for you or others who receive a Red Cross message. Having the information verified by a reputable source such as Red Cross, expedites your departure from wherever you are located to your final destination.



If you are the initiator of a Red Cross message to be delivered, there are certain information that you should readily have available to ensure rapid delivery of notification to the recipient:

Full legal name.

Rank/rating.

Branch of service.





Social security number.

Date of birth.

Military unit address.



8-2. Army Community Service.

The purpose of Army Community Service (ACS) is to facilitate a commander's ability to provide comprehensive, coordinated, and responsive services that support readiness of Soldiers, Civilian employees, and their Families. ACS benefits include:

Mobilization and Deployment Readiness. Stability and Support Operations.

Soldier and Family Readiness.

Relocation Readiness.

Employment Readiness.

Financial Readiness.

Volunteer Programs.

Soldier and Family Assistance Centers/Survivor Outreach Services (SOS).



8-3. Army Continuing Education System.

The Army Continuing Education System (ACES) provides programs and services to promote lifelong learning opportunities and to sharpen the competitive edge of the Army. The ACES improves combat readiness and resilience through flexible and relevant education programs, services, and systems in support of the Total Army Family. Other services that the ACES provides include:

Army Credentialing Opportunities On-Line (COOL).

Tests of general education development.

High School Completion Program.

Functional Academic Skills Training (FAST) Programs.



8-4. Army Emergency Relief.

The Army Emergency Relief (AER) is the Army's own emergency financial assistance organization and is dedicated to helping the





Army take care of its own. AER is a nonprofit organization that provides interest free loans, grants or a combination of both to Soldiers who meet the qualification criteria. AER provides commanders a valuable asset in accomplishing their basic command responsibility for the morale and welfare of Soldiers. It is important to understand the rules and resources available to your Family. Personnel who may be eligible for AER assistance are:

Soldiers on active duty and their eligible dependents.

Reserve Component Soldiers (ARNG and USAR) on continuous AD orders for more than 30 consecutive days and their eligible dependents.

Soldiers retired from AD because of longevity, or retired at age 60 (Reserve Component) and their eligible Family members.

Surviving spouses and surviving children of eligible Soldiers who died while on AD or after they were retired as identified in the bullet above.

Medically retired Soldiers and their eligible Family members.



8-5. Army Family Action Plan.

The Army Family Action Plan (AFAP) provides Active and Reserve Component Soldiers, Army civilians, Family members, survivors, and retirees a voice in shaping their standards of living by identifying issues and concerns for Army senior leadership resolution. Since its inception in 1983, the AFAP remains the only such partnership between a branch of the United States military and its constituents. Information provided through the AFAP process gives commanders and leaders insight into current satisfaction detractors, quality of life needs, and expectations of Army constituents. Leadership uses the information to effect changes that improve standards of living and support programs.

These changes foster a satisfied, informed, and resilient Army Community.





8-6. Army Community Covenant.

The Army Community Covenant program is designed to foster and sustain effective state and community partnerships with the Army to improve the quality of life for Soldiers and their Families, both at their current duty stations and as they transfer to other states. It is a formal commitment of support by state and local communities to Soldiers and Families of the Army - Active, Guard and Reserve. While Community Covenant is an Army program, it extends to the other Military Services as well, recognizing that many community efforts support all Soldiers and their Families regardless of the uniform they wear.



8-7. Army Family Readiness Group.

The Army Family Readiness Group (FRG) website is a Commander’s tool that allows them to communicate directly to Soldiers and Family Members. Army FRG provides all the functionality of a traditional FRG in an ad-hoc and on-line setting to meet the needs of geographically dispersed Units and families across all components of the Army. The FRG website is a secure site only available to Soldiers/DA civilians and their Family Members. It provides Family Members with a valuable tool to access documents, view photos/videos, participate in forums, and gain important information about the Army Unit that their Soldier/DA Civilian belongs to 24/7 from anywhere in the world. A Unit’s virtual FRG site (FRG) promotes a community feeling within Units by providing a place that is customized to the Unit and contains content that is controlled by the Unit.



8-8. Army Family Team Building.

The Army Family Team Building (AFTB) is a Family training and readiness program that provides participants with a better understanding of Army culture, as well as the skills and resources needed to become resilient and self-reliant members of the military community. Family preparedness, self-reliance, and resilience continue to be important to mission readiness. These key competencies help increase your confidence that your family can





manage their lives successfully without you, which in turn assists you to focus on your mission. Moreover, AFTB continues to empower individuals to maximize their personal growth and professional development through specialized training, as well as transform the Army community into a resilient and strong foundation meeting today’s mission. AFTB is not limited to the boundaries of the Active Army. It embraces all the components of America's Army - the active duty Soldier, the United States Army Reserves, the United States Army National Guard, Department of Army civilians, and Family members.



8-9. Army Retention Program.

Personnel readiness is a responsibility of command to sustain readiness by developing, implementing, and maintaining aggressive Retention Programs, designed to accomplish specific goals and missions. The Department of the Army Policy illustrates that only those Soldiers who have maintained a record of acceptable performance will be offered the privilege of reenlisting within the Active Army, transferring or enlisting into the reserve component (RC). Reenlistment is the Army’s equivalent of the quality management program, but at the organizational level. It is designed to meet the personal desires of the Soldier and to fulfill the needs of the Army. To serve the interests of both the Soldier and the service, it is equally important that Soldiers familiarize themselves with what is expected of them when they select a certain option (AR 601-280).



8-10.	Army Safety Program.

No other program has more impact on Soldier Readiness than the Army Safety Program. It is the responsibility of every Soldier and Army Civilian to stop unsafe acts by being responsible for accident prevention, applying risk management found in ATP 5-19 and DA Pam 385-30 to mitigate risks and reporting of any violations that creates an unsafe environment. This can also be accomplished by staying in compliance with the Army Regulations, safe work practices, standing operating procedures and by using all necessary





personal protective equipment (PPE). Safety goals support overall command objectives by helping to keep personnel safe and ready for duty.



Risk Management. Every leader and individual is responsible for integrating the five-step risk management process into operations and activities both on and off-duty. Risk management is the Army process for identifying, assessing, and controlling risks, then making decisions that balance risk cost with benefits. The Army uses risk management to help maintain combat power while ensuring mission accomplishment in current and future operations. The Army has a limited number of trained Soldiers and pieces of equipment. It is the Soldier’s duty to maintain themselves, as well as the personnel and equipment entrusted to him or her. The risk management process is depicted below:



Figure 8-1. Risk management process





The principles of risk management are:

Integrate RM into all phases of missions and operations.

Make risk decisions at the appropriate level.

Accept no unnecessary risk.

Apply RM cyclically and continuously.



For additional information on risk management, refer to DA Pamphlet 385-30 and ATP 5-19.



8-11.	Army Substance Abuse Program.

The Army Substance Abuse Program (ASAP) exists to strengthen the overall fitness and effectiveness of the Army’s workforce, to conserve labor, and to enhance the combat readiness of Soldiers. ASAP is responsible for developing, establishing, administering, and evaluating non-clinical alcohol and other drug abuse prevention, education, and training programs; overseeing the Military, Drug Free Workplace. Some goals of the program include:

Providing services, which are proactive and responsive to the needs of the Army´s workforce and emphasizing alcohol and other drug abuse deterrence, prevention, education, and rehabilitation.

Implementing alcohol and other drug risk reduction and prevention strategies that respond to potential problems before they jeopardize readiness, productivity, and careers.

Restore to duty those substance-impaired Soldiers who have the potential for continued military Service.

Provide effective alcohol and other drug abuse prevention and education at all levels of command, and encourage commanders to provide alcohol and drug-free leisure activities.

Improve readiness by extending services to the Soldiers, Civilian corps members, and Family members.





8-12.	Army World Class Athlete Program.

The Army World Class Athlete Program provides support and training for outstanding Soldier-athletes to help them compete and succeed in national and international competitions leading to Olympic and Paralympic Games, while maintaining a professional military career. To maintain proficiency within their respective MOS in order to stay competitive with their counterparts assigned to regular Army units for promotion, coordination is made with Human Resources Command for active duty Soldiers, and appropriate Reserve and National Guard personnel offices, to ensure they receive the appropriate training.



8-13.	Better Opportunities for Single Soldiers.

The Better Opportunities for Single Soldiers (BOSS) is a quality of life program that addresses single Soldier issues and initiatives.

The BOSS program enhances the morale and welfare of single Soldiers, increases retention, and sustains combat readiness. BOSS is the collective voice of single Soldiers through the chain of command, which serves as a tool for commanders to gauge the morale of single Soldiers regarding quality of life issues.

Additionally, BOSS also sponsors a variety of activities before, during, and after deployment to maintain the morale of single Soldiers affected by increased operational tempo and deployment stress. The BOSS program is facilitated through its three core components.



Quality of Life. Quality of life includes those issues that can influence directly or indirectly the morale, living environment, or personal growth and development of Soldiers. Issues raised during BOSS meetings will be directed to the appropriate command or staff agency for resolution on the installation. Army-wide issues are forwarded to the Army Family Action Plan Conference for possible DA resolution.



Recreation and Leisure. Fun activities are planned by the BOSS council working in conjunction with the Morale Welfare





and Recreation (MWR) Advisor and CSM. These events are geared towards the desires of the Single Soldiers on that installation.



Community Service. BOSS makes a difference by volunteering in community projects and events. Participation is always voluntary in nature and many Soldiers find this to be personally rewarding.



8-14.	Child Youth and School Services.

Child, Youth and School Services (CYSS) consists of four services; Child Development Services; School Age Services, Youth Services and CYSS Liaison, Education, and Outreach Services. CYSS recognizes the challenges of our Soldiers and their Families. By offering quality programs for children, youth and students, CYSS supports the Army Family Covenant by reducing the conflict between mission readiness and parental responsibility. This includes programs such as daycare at your garrison and in your local community, school-age services, and online tutoring programs. CYSS also has teen programs, in-home childcare, youth sports and more. All these services support the Soldier, which in turn enhances Army readiness. In other words, a Soldier can concentrate on his/her mission knowing that their children and youth are safe and supervised by trained and professional staff members while participating in quality developmental programs.

The Soldier's workday is unique due to irregular or extended duty hours, deployments, and temporary duty assignments. The challenges for care continue to grow as mission requirements demand more of the modern day Soldier (AR 215-1).



8-15.	Comprehensive Soldier and Family Fitness Program/Master Resilience Trainer.

The Comprehensive Soldier and Family Fitness program is designed to build resilience and enhance the performance of the Army Family (Soldiers, Families and Army civilians). The Comprehensive Soldier and Family Fitness program provides





hands-on training and self-development tools so that members of the Army Family are better able to cope with adversity, perform better in stressful situations and thrive in the military and civilian sector as well as meet a wide range of operational demands. The program emphasizes social, physical, Family, spiritual, and emotional fitness. The Army's "Master Resiliency Training Course" is part of Comprehensive Soldier Fitness. It is designed to enhance a Soldier's mettle, mind & mental thinking, and focuses on the five dimensions of strength: emotional, social, spiritual, Family, and physical. The program concentrates on the knowledge and skills necessary to overcome the extreme adversities Soldiers face, both in and out of the war zone.



8-16.	Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System.

The Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) is a database that contains information for each Soldier (Active Duty, retired, or a member of a Reserve Component), US-sponsored foreign military, DOD and Uniformed Services civilians, other personnel as directed by the DOD (including the patient population serviced through the Military Health Services System), and their eligible Family members. DEERS registration is required for TRICARE eligibility and enrollment. Incorrect information in the DEERS database can cause problems with TRICARE claims as well as other health care benefits, so it is critical to maintain your DEERS information. You are responsible for keeping your information current on your record. As an active-duty or retired Soldier, you are automatically registered in DEERS, but you must take action to register your family members and ensure they are correctly entered into the database. Once registered in DEERS it is important to keep your DEERS records updated when any personal eligibility information changes. This includes addresses and family status (marriage, divorce, birth, adoption). Retail network pharmacies check TRICARE eligibility through DEERS. Prescriptions will be filled only for beneficiaries who are listed as eligible in DEERS.





8-17.	Equal Opportunity Program.

The U.S. Army will provide Equal Opportunity (EO) and fair treatment for military personnel and Family members without regard to race, color, gender, religion, national origin, sexual orientation and provide an environment free of unlawful discrimination and offensive behavior. Discrimination has no place in society and is detrimental to Army readiness. Leaders create and sustain effective units by eliminating discriminatory behaviors or practices that undermine teamwork, mutual respect, loyalty, and shared sacrifice of the men and women of America’s Army.

Commanders are responsible for sustaining a positive EO climate within their units. Specifically, the goals of the EO program are to:



Provide EO for military personnel and Family members, both on and off post and within the limits of the laws of localities, states, and host Nations.



Create and sustain effective units by eliminating discriminatory behaviors or practices that undermine teamwork, mutual respect, loyalty, and shared sacrifice of the men and women of America's Army.



8-18.	Exceptional Family Member Program.

The Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP) is a mandatory enrollment program that works with other military and civilian agencies to provide comprehensive and coordinated community support, housing, educational, medical and personnel services to Families with special needs. The purpose of the EFMP program is to ensure that Soldiers who have family members with special needs or disabilities are located in a geographical location where services for those special needs or disabilities are available.



When you enroll, the review occurs early in the assignment process. It is important to keep in mind that a match is not guaranteed and you may be subject to a worldwide assignment or called upon to serve an unaccompanied tour.





Not enrolling an exceptional family member may cause serious problems when you receive a new assignment to a remote location within the U.S. or a location overseas. Overseas Family travel may be delayed or unapproved until your accompanying Family members, who will accompany you, have been screened for medical and special education conditions.



To initiate enrollment in EFMP you need to contact your nearest Army Medical Treatment Facility EFMP case coordinator. If you and your spouse are dual military and are members of the Army Married Couples Program, you both should enroll in the EFMP when you have a Family member that qualifies. This process will ensure that your assignment manager and that of your spouse considers your Family's special needs. You are responsible for keeping the medical and/or special education needs documentation current. This must be updated at least every three years or when an exceptional family member’s condition changes, whichever comes first.



8-19.	Family Advocacy Program.

The Family Advocacy Program (FAP) is dedicated to domestic and child abuse prevention, education, prompt reporting, investigation, intervention, and treatment. The Army provides a variety of services to Soldiers and Families to enhance their relationship skills and improve their quality of life. FAPs provide Families with direct services, and conducts various prevention, training, and

data-collection activities. Family Advocacy Program is directed to providing:

Personal Safety - through reducing Family violence.

Self-sufficiency - building strong Families/strong Soldiers through information, education, and skill-building activities.





Personnel Preparedness - through reducing duty time lost and increasing unit readiness.

Community Cohesion - through programs designed to create a strong integrated Army community promoting command involvement and supporting Soldier and Family wellness.



8-20.	Financial Readiness Program.

The Army Financial Readiness Program provides a variety of education and counseling services to assist Soldiers and Families by increasing personal readiness and reducing financial stressors. Services include life-cycle education, personal financial training, advanced individual training, online financial readiness training and financial literacy gaming. The program provides financial guidance and support to Soldiers and their Families in the areas of general pay and allowances, entitlements, relocation, and credit reports.



Financial Readiness is an ACS program that offers a variety of education and counseling services to help Soldiers and Families increase personal readiness and reduce financial stressors. These services include life-cycle Education Program (entry to retirement), personal financial training in Basic Combat Training and Advanced Individual Training, eight hours of mandatory personal financial readiness training for first-term Soldiers, online financial readiness training classes, and financial literacy gaming (18-25 y/o target group).



The Financial Readiness Program provides classes in personal financial management readiness and consumer affairs to Soldiers and Family members. These classes may include:

Banking and credit union services.

Budget development and record keeping.

Debt management / liquidation.

Credit.

Consumer rights and obligations.





Insurance.

Personal financial readiness.

Army Emergency Relief (AER).

Investments.

Thrift Savings Plan.



The program also:

Provides financial counseling services in areas such as budget development and financial planning, developing a spending plan, managing personal finances, and evaluating assets and liabilities.

Provides prescreening and counseling for the Family Subsistence Supplemental Assistance Program.

Provides a partner with American Financial Services Education Foundation to offer an on-line personal financial management course for high school students.

Provides consumer advocacy service.

Provides emergency assistance.

Supports DOD Financial Forums.

Assists with consumer complaint resolution.

Assists in Real Estate planning.

Assist in Debt liquidation.

Conducts media campaigns on Predatory Lending Laws.

Promotes behavior change to help Soldiers build wealth through saving and investing.

Partners with many non-profit agencies and DOD to assist in consumer advocacy.



8-21.	Inspector General’s Office.

The Inspector General’s (IG) Office primary function is to ensure the combat readiness of subordinate units in their command. They investigate noncriminal allegations and some specific criminal investigations, but they help correct problems that affect the





productivity, mission accomplishment, and morale of assigned personnel, which is vital to unit readiness.



The IG provides assistance with inspections and compliance programs as well as teaching and training provided to units and their leaders. The IG Office is a great resource to seek information and assistance when handling Soldier issues.



The IGs are aligned with the Mission Support Element and their mission is to serve as the eyes, ears, and conscience of the Installation Management Command Commanding General (CG). Through the conduct of thorough, objective, and impartial inspections, assessments, assistance, and investigations designed to inform and assist Installation Management Command leaders to ensure readiness, effectiveness, and efficiencies to promote the well-being, good order, and discipline for our Soldiers, Families, civilians, and other valued customers. Any Department of Army military or civilian member may file an IG complaint; however, many Army Civilian complaints (discrimination, sexual harassment, and conditions of employment) must be addressed by agencies other than the IG. Anyone, including civilians with no Army affiliation, may file fraud, waste, and abuse disclosures. Depending on the circumstances, the IG may also accept complaints from dependents or relatives of active duty and retired military members. However, it is always best for the actual "victim" or person who witnessed the alleged wrongdoing to file the complaint.



8-22.	Legal Assistance.

Legal Assistance can assist you and your family in numerous ways such as creating a will, estate planning, family and domestic matters (separation, divorce, child support, child-custody), citizenship and immigration, taxes, consumer and economic matters, military rights and benefits, landlord-tenant issues and powers of attorney, notary services or have a rental agreement reviewed. Normally, you and your family can access free legal





services and attorney advice through your local legal assistance office. The Legal Assistance Program focuses on helping Soldiers to get their legal affairs in order before they deploy or mobilize.



There are Army legal assistance providers available worldwide to advise Soldiers, Family members and other eligible clients on legal affairs in a timely and professional manner. Providers deliver preventive law information, resolve personal legal problems, and alleviate the burden of full payment for legal services.



Judge Advocates and DOD civilian attorneys assigned to assist eligible individuals with personal legal problems are known as legal assistance attorneys, and are located on nearly every base, ship, and installation.



If a Legal Assistance Attorney is unable to resolve your case or a specialized attorney is needed, the Legal Assistance Attorney will refer you to a civilian attorney who can handle your case.



At certain installations, the state courts have approved Legal Assistance Attorneys to appear in local courts. In such cases, a Legal Assistance Attorney may represent certain military members in civil court.



8-23.	Military Family Life Consultants.

Army Families face unique challenges. They may struggle with issues such as deployment-related stress, reintegration, and pressures of managing parenting and finances while a loved one is deployed. To support Army Families facing these or additional challenges, the Military Family Life Consultant program:

Provides short-term, non-medical counseling services to Soldiers and their Families at no cost.

Provides psycho-education to help Soldiers and their Families understand the impact of deployments, family reunions





following deployments and other stresses related to the Army life.

Augments existing Army support services.

Offers flexible service delivery.

Can provide services on or off military installations with the exception of a domicile.

Can provide services to individuals, couples, families, and groups.



With the exception of child abuse, domestic abuse, and duty to warn situations, services are private and confidential. No records are maintained of any identifiable information.



Note: Military Family Life Consultants and Military One Source resources provide only confidential, nonmedical counseling. MFLCs and Military OneSource will not be used as regular staff, they may not carry a beeper to be on-call, they may not be used as 24/7 emergency personnel, may not staff a 24–hour emergency telephone number, and must always operate within the scope of their respective contracts (AR 608-1, page 50).





8-24.	Morale, Welfare, and Recreation.

The Army Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) program is a quality of life program that directly supports readiness by providing a variety of community, Soldier, and Family support activities and services. MWR offers worldwide support through a comprehensive network of programs and services at each installation for family, child, and youth programs to recreation, sports and entertainment, travel, and leisure activities. Soldiers and their Families may be able to rent a cottage at the beach, buy discount tickets to a theme park, take swimming lessons or get help managing their personal finances. Throughout the military, MWR programs provide high-quality recreation opportunities and consistent community support for Soldiers and their Families.





The range of MWR activities offered at Army installations is based on the needs of authorized patrons who work and reside there. The U.S. Army Installation Management Command G-9, Family, and MWR provides oversight for Army MWR operations worldwide. Some of the MWR programs available on Army installations may include:

Boating programs and marinas, bowling centers, golf courses, stables, and special interest recreation programs.

Physical fitness, aquatics, and sports programs.

Hospitality and lodging programs.

Individual skills development programs.

Information, Ticket and Tours.

Libraries and information services programs.

Outdoor Recreation Programs.

Recreation Centers.

Single Soldier programs.



The mission of MWR is to serve the needs, interests, and responsibilities of all people in the Army community-Soldiers, their Families, civilian employees, military retirees, and other eligible participants-for as long as they are associated with the Army, no matter where they are located.



8-25.	New Parent Support Program.

The Army’s New Parent Support Program is a key secondary prevention program within the FAP, which falls under the umbrella of ACS. This voluntary participation program helps Soldiers and Family members who are expecting a child, or have a child or children up to three years of age, to build strong, healthy military families. Through a variety of supportive services including home visits, support groups and parenting classes, the New Parent Support Program helps Soldiers and Families learn to cope with stress, isolation, post-deployment reunions and the everyday demands of parenthood. If you would like to participate in the





program, you can enroll through your installation's FAP or family support center. If you do not live near a military installation, there are similar programs for new parents available in many locations. Ask your pediatrician for help finding a support program for new parents in your community, or call Military One Source.



8-26.	Sexual Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention. The Sexual Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention (SHARP) mission is to promote an Army culture and command

climate that ensures adherence to the Army Values and ensures that every Army team member will be treated with dignity and respect at all times and in all circumstances. Sexual violence has no place within the Profession of Arms and is a threat to the integrity and vitality of the All-Volunteer Force. Prevention of sexual violence is an inherent responsibility of every Soldier, leader, and Army Civilian.



Every Soldier is part of the I. A.M. Strong campaign and you must Intervene, Act, and Motivate to prevent sexual harassment and sexual assault. In the Army, there is no such thing as an innocent bystander when it comes to sexual harassment or sexual assault. When you see the warning signs of sexual violence, you must be either a leader or a follower. Table 8-1 below displays the actions of either the leader or the follower. Every Soldier must be the leader when it comes to sexual violence.



Table 8-1. Bystander actions







Sexual harassment is a form of gender discrimination that involves unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature (AR 600-20, paragraph 7-4a). Some examples of Sexual Harassment include:



Verbal:

Making sexual jokes, gestures, remarks, or suggestions.

Making comments about an individual’s

appearance, body, clothing, or sexual behavior.

Spreading sexual rumors about an individual.

Persistent, unwanted requests for social (dates) or sexual activity.

Participating in sexually charged conversations.



Nonverbal

Making and/or posting inappropriate sexual remarks to, or photos of, an individual via social media sites, text message, or email.

Displaying pornographic material or sexual photos in the workplace.

Making a sexually offensive expression.

Conduct of a sexual nature intended to embarrass, intimidate, demean, or degrade.



Physical Contact

Unwanted touching.

Intimidation (blocking or cornering someone in a sexual way).



Sexual Assault is intentional sexual contact characterized by the use of force, threats, intimidation, or abuse of authority or when the victim does not or cannot consent. The term includes a broad category of sexual offenses consisting of the following





specific UCMJ offenses: rape, sexual assault, aggravated sexual contact, abusive sexual contact, forcible sodomy (forced oral or anal sex), or attempts to commit these acts (DODD 6495.01, .page 21).



Reporting Options. There are two methods of reporting the assault: Restricted and Unrestricted. If an incident of sexual assault occurs, it is the victim’s choice whether to report or what type of report to submit. Figure 8-2. SHARP Reporting Process Flow Chart – Part A (page 8-23 & 8-24) and Figure 8-4. SHARP Complaint Process Flow Chart - Part A (page 8-25 & 8-26) provides additional information about the SHARP reporting options. All victims have the right:

To be treated with fairness and with respect for his or her dignity and privacy.

To be reasonably protected from the accused offender.

To be notified of court proceedings.

To be present at all public court proceedings related to the offense, unless the court determines that the victim’s testimony would be materially affected if the victim heard other testimonies at trial.

To confer with the attorney for the government in the case.



Restricted Report.



The victim can report a sexual assault incident to a sexual assault response coordinator, victim advocate (VA), or healthcare provider without triggering an official investigation or prosecution of the alleged offender. In narrow circumstances, a chaplain or legal assistance attorney may assist a victim with filing a restricted report. A restricted report may be changed to an unrestricted report at any time.





If an officer or noncommissioned officer receives information that a subordinate is a victim of a sexual assault or if a law enforcement officer receives information of anyone victimized by a sexual assault, then the information must be reported to a military criminal investigative organization (in the Army, this is the Criminal Investigation Command). In these cases, the report cannot be restricted. In addition, if the person to whom the victim confided in reports the incident, an official investigation will be initiated.



Unrestricted Option.



If the victim chooses to file an unrestricted report, the sexual assault response coordinator, VA, healthcare provider, chain of command, and law enforcement, will be notified that the crime occurred. An official investigation will be triggered and the alleged offender may be prosecuted. All unrestricted reports must be referred to CID pursuant to DODI 5505.18. An unrestricted report cannot be changed to a restricted report. If at any time a victim declines to participate in an investigation or prosecution, that decision should be honored by commanders, investigators, and all other personnel involved in the case.



Every Soldier has a duty to intervene to prevent sexual harassment and sexual assault. The vision of the I. A.M. Strong campaign is to eliminate sexual harassment and sexual assault by creating a culture where Soldiers believe that failure to prevent sexual harassment and sexual assault is incompatible with Army Values, Army Ethic, and Warrior Ethos.













Figure 8-2. SHARP Reporting Process Flow Chart – Part A













Figure 8-3. SHARP Reporting Process Flow Chart - Part B













Figure 8-4. SHARP Complaint Process Flow Chart - Part A













Figure 8-5. SHARP Complaint Process Flow Chart - Part B





8-27.	Soldier for Life Program.

The Soldier for Life (SFL) program assists Soldiers in achieving the right mindset, obtain the necessary training and qualifications, and make the necessary connections through the Army, governmental and community efforts to reintegrate Soldiers, veterans and their Families into civilian life. The SFL initiative focuses on a Soldier’s lifecycle; that once a Soldier, always a Soldier. The four points highlight that a Soldier starts strong, serves strong, reintegrates strong, and remains strong. When Soldiers are better integrated, they stay Army Strong, instilled in values, ethos, and leadership within communities. Being a Soldier for life means being a steward of the army Profession. Stewardship is the responsibility of Army professionals to strengthen the Army as a profession and to care for the people and other resources entrusted to them by the American people. Veterans bring value to employers, schools, and communities and we strengthen the Army and the Nation by encouraging positive transitions. SFL is the U.S. Army’s connection with the Army network, communities and industry. It focuses on the Soldier population to instill the Soldier for Life mindset of service. SFL works to synchronize the efforts of the more than 46,000 organizations who seek to assist Soldiers, veterans, and Families. The end state of the SFL campaign are that Soldiers, veterans, and Families leave military service “career ready” and find an established network of enablers connecting them with the employment, education, and health resources required to successfully reintegrate into civilian society.



8-28.	Soldier for Life – Transition Assistance Program.

The Soldier for Life - Transition Assistance Program, is the Army's Transition Program responsible for providing Soldiers with the counseling, employment and education workshops, and seminars required to achieve Veterans Opportunity to Work and Career Readiness Standards mandated compliance. SFL - Transition Assistance Program exists solely to "prepare" and "connect" Soldiers to ensure the greatest opportunities for successful personal and career achievement upon transition from active duty back to





civilian life. The SFL - Transition Assistance Program Call Center can be reached by calling 1-800-325-4715. Benefits of the Transition Assistance Program may include:

Pre-Separation Counseling.

Effects of a Career Change.

Employment Assistance.

Relocation Assistance.

Education and Training.

Health and Life Insurance.

Financial Planning.

Veterans Affairs Benefits, including disability.



8-29.	Total Army Sponsorship Program.

The Total Army Sponsorship Program (TASP) is an important personnel function requiring command involvement. It assists Soldiers, Civilian employees, and Families during the reassignment process. It assists Families geographically separated from the Soldier or civilian employee sponsor because of duty requirements. When units deploy, the responsibility for assigning sponsors remains with the unit, particularly with the rear detachment commander to ensure that first-term Soldiers get sponsored if they are inbound followed by immediate deployment.



As a first term Soldier, you should be automatically enrolled into the sponsorship program. In the event that you are not you may initiate this process by filling out DA Form 5434 during your initial assignment/reassignment overview (levy briefing). The completed form will be forwarded to the gaining major command or activity, which will ultimately assign you a sponsor at your unit level of assignment. Your gaining unit and your sponsor will then both send you a welcome letter so you can establish an open line of communication. This is to answer any and all of your questions concerning the new duty station, or refer you to an agency that will assist in making your move a little less stressful.





If done correctly, TASP will inherently reduce the stress created by PCS moves.



8-30.	Total Army Strong.

Total Army Strong succeeds the Army Family Covenant, and provides a broader, tailorable platform from which commanders can deliver essential programs to support a ready Army.

Commanders will have the flexibility to prioritize and adjust installation programs and services regardless of geographic location or component. Total Army Strong continues and underscores the U.S. Army's commitment and responsibility to the total Army Family - Soldiers, Family members, and civilians. The Army remains steadfast in its commitment to:

Maintain the trust between leaders and their Soldiers, Families and civilians.

Foster an environment that promotes adaptability and self-reliance.

Promote physical, emotional, social Family, and spiritual strengths.

Honor the service and sacrifices of those who serve our Nation.



8-31.	Transitional Compensation Program.

The Transitional Compensation Program is a congressionally authorized program for abused Family members of military personnel. The legislation authorizes temporary monetary payments and benefits for Families in which the active-duty Soldier has been court martialed with a qualifying sentence or is being administratively separated for a domestic violence or child abuse offense. The temporary payments are intended to assist victims and their children with successfully separating from an abusive Soldier and transitioning from military to civilian life.



8-32.	Tuition Assistance.

The Tuition Assistance (TA) Program provides financial assistance for voluntary off-duty civilian education programs in support of





your professional and personal self-development goals. TA is a public law that is implemented by the Department of Defense (DOD) Directives and Instructions, and all Soldiers (officers, warrant officers, enlisted) on active duty, Army National Guard and Army Reserve Soldiers on active duty (pursuant to U.S. Code Title 10 or Title 32), and Troop Program Units (TPU) Soldiers are authorized to participate in the TA program. Soldiers must have one year of service after completion of AIT to begin using TA. For more information concerning TA, see your education counselor.

8-33.	Veterans Affairs Home Loans.

The Veterans Affairs Home Loan Program helps Veterans finance the purchase of homes with favorable loan terms and a competitive rate of interest. For Veterans Affairs housing loan purposes, the term "Veteran" includes certain members of the Army National Guard, the Army Reserve, Regular Army, and certain categories of Spouses. Benefits for Veterans Affairs Home Loans include:

Equal opportunity for all qualified veterans to obtain a Veterans Affairs loan.

Reusable.

No down payment, (unless required by the lender or the purchase price is more than the reasonable value of the property).

No mortgage insurance.

One time Veterans Affairs funding fee, that can be included in the loan.

Veterans receiving Veterans Affairs disability compensation are exempt from the Veterans Affairs funding fee.

Veterans Affairs limits certain closing costs a Veteran can pay.

Can be taken over by other qualified persons.

Minimum property requirements to ensure the property is safe, sanitary, and sound.

Veterans Affairs staff dedicated to assisting Veterans who become delinquent on their loan.





8-34.	Victim Advocacy Program.

Victim Advocacy Services Program provides comprehensive assistance and support to victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault, including crisis intervention, safety planning, and assistance in securing medical treatment for injuries, information on legal rights and proceedings, and referral to military and civilian shelters and other resources available to victims. Victim Advocacy services are available 24 hours a day/7 days a week to Soldiers and Family members. The Victim Advocate provides you:

Crisis intervention and support.

Safety assessment and planning.

Information on reporting options.

Coordination of emergency services, transportation, housing, food, etc.

Information on the Transitional Compensation Program.

Assistance in obtaining military and civilian protective orders.

Accompaniment through the medical, investigative, and legal processes.

Representation of victim’s interest at Family Advocacy Case Review Committee meetings.

Information and referral services.









































This page intentionally left blank.



SOLDIER TOOLS



As Soldiers, we are constantly evolving and learning from our experiences and that of others. As such this chapter provides additional tools that can enhance your abilities in meeting your goals through career progression.



9-1. Career Map for Soldiers.

The development of the professional attributes and technical capabilities of enlisted Soldiers to meet the needs of the Army are accomplished through activities identified on proponent-designed Professional Development Models. These Professional Development Models combine operational assignments, institutional training, and proponent recommended self-development goals that define branch qualified Soldiers in each grade by MOS. Career models are based on Army requirements, indicating the numbers and types of enlisted Soldiers to be accessed, retained, promoted, trained, and assigned. Proponents monitor the Army documents pertaining to their career management fields since any change to the force structure requires a change to the enlisted force inventory. Career branches within the enlisted personnel management directorate develop Soldiers’ careers by using these templates, while balancing Army requirements with policies for enlisted management. To ensure the career development of all enlisted Soldiers, enlisted personnel management directorate shares responsibility and operates in concert with various stakeholders (for example, individual Soldiers, the personnel proponents, and commanders in the field) (DA Pam 600-25). Table 9-1 on page 9-2 provides a general enlisted career map and corresponding noncommissioned officer education system requirements. Detailed Professional Development Models based on your MOS can be found at the Army Career Tracker website.





Table 9-1. Enlisted Career Map





9-2. Promotions.

The promotion system provides for career progression and rank that is in line with potential, recognizing the best qualified Soldier, to attract and retain the highest caliber Soldier for a career in the Army. Additionally, it precludes promoting the Soldier who is not productive nor best qualified, providing an equitable system for all Soldiers (AR 600-8-19, paragraph 1-5). Table 9-2 provides promotion criteria from PVT to SPC.



Table 9-2. Promotion Criteria-Active Duty





Select. Selection for promotion to a noncommissioned officer (NCO) rank is based on a Soldier's potential to serve at increasing levels of responsibility, and this potential stems from a leader's assessment of a Soldier in his or her current rank. The description of an NCO as a leader is based on the core roles derived from the duties, responsibilities, and authorities of the NCO Corps. Our NCOs (1) lead, (2) train and educate; (3) care for Soldiers and equipment; and (4) maintain and enforce standards.





These four roles establish the foundation for NCO development and serve as measurements of success throughout an NCO's career. Leaders must continually assess how Soldiers perform in their current rank and, when successful, identify those who show the capacity and potential, with training, to perform at higher levels of responsibility.



Train. The training and education of our NCO ranks are vital to the readiness of our Army. The policies set forth in this regulation help ensure NCOs are prepared to assume their next rank and/or position by completing the requisite training and education before their advancement. By linking structured self-development (SSD), the Noncommissioned Officer Education System and, subsequently, a promotion, will better prepare NCOs for the complexities of today's operational environment while reinforcing the benefits of a deliberate, continuous, sequential, and progressive professional development strategy. The NCO's career timeline provides a foundation for accumulating the necessary training, education, and experiences needed to attain competency at each grade and serves as the catalyst to consider leaders for increased responsibilities.



Promote. Soldiers should be considered for promotion to the next higher rank when they achieve competency in their current rank and exhibit the potential to serve successfully at the next higher rank. These Soldiers display a progression of competencies and attributes in the following general learning outcomes:



The Army Profession.



Professional competence.



Team building.



Adaptability.



Lifelong learning.





Comprehensive fitness.



9-3. Precedence of Relative Grade, Enlisted Soldiers.

An order of precedence is a sequential hierarchy based on the Soldiers individual data and is used to determine the order of succession to replace the next level of leadership in the event he or she is removed from office or incapacitated. This concept is also used in the rating and counseling chain within a unit.



Among enlisted Soldiers of the same grade or rank in active military service (to include retired enlisted Soldiers on active duty), precedence of relative rank is determined as follows:



Date of rank (DOR).



Length of active Federal service in the Army when DORs are the same (pay entry basic date for USAR and ARNG).



By length of total active Federal service when (1) and

above are the same.



(4) Date of birth when (1), (2), and (3) above are the same. Older is more senior.



Date of rank and effective date:



The DOR for promotion to a higher grade is the date specified in the promotion instrument or when no date is specified, is the date of the instrument of promotion.



The DOR in all other cases will be established as governed by appropriate regulation.



The DOR in a grade to which reduced for inefficiency or failure to complete a school course is the same as that previously held in that grade. If the reduction is a grade higher than that previously held, it is the date the Soldier was eligible for





promotion under the promotion criteria set forth for that grade under this regulation.



The DOR on reduction for all other reasons is the effective date of reduction.



The DOR and the effective date will be the same unless otherwise directed by regulation (AR 600-8-19).



9-4. Army Training Network.

The Army Training Network (ATN) provides an online self-help service available such as METL development, and links to supporting doctrine, references, and training products. Training is one of a leaders three roles and ATN provides substantial support. Support services include:

Training solutions.

How to develop good trainers.

Training management best practices.

Unit provided examples.

Digital training management system tutorials.

Links to other training resources.



9-5. Army Career Tracker.

ACT is an individual career management system aimed at supporting the lifecycle of the Soldier. ACT encourages you and your leaders to define career goals, create and ensure timelines are met for those goals and help fulfill objectives both inside and outside the Army. ACT continues to improve on its capabilities to resource and inform Soldiers, as well as leaders, of initiatives and career development programs. ACT provides the following features to assist both you and your leaders:



Encourages you to develop an individual development plan that tracks training, military education, civilian education, and a host of other development paths used to map your career.





Provides access to the Army Learning Management System to complete SSD enrollments.



Provides access to the TASP functionality in ACT to automate sponsorship, which standardizes procedures for requesting for a sponsor: management of the linkage between you and sponsor by the losing and gaining commands.



Provides links to other support sites such as NCO Journal, GoArmyEd, Verification of Military Experience and Training and Joint Service Transcript just to name a few.



Consolidates information from several systems and presents it at one central site. These systems include the Integrated Total Army Personnel Database, GoArmyEd, the Army Learning Management System, and the Army Training Requirements and Resources System.



9-6. U.S. Army Doctrine.

U.S. Army doctrine contains the fundamental principles by which the Army forces or elements thereof guide their actions in support of National objectives. The Army has streamlined doctrine under the concept of Doctrine 2015. Publications are broken down into four categories: Army Doctrine Publications (ADP), Army Doctrine Reference Publications (ADRP), Field Manuals (FM), and Army Techniques Publications (ATP).



ADP. ADPs are generally limited to approximately ten pages and explain the fundamentals of the subject as well as how they support ADP 3-0, Operations. ADP consists of 16 publications. ADP 1 (The Army), 3-0 (Unified Land Operations), 6-22 (Army Leadership), and 7-0 (Training Units and Developing Leaders) are approved by the Chief of Staff of the Army. The Combined Arms Center CG approves all other ADPs.



ADRP. ADRPs presents detailed explanations of all doctrinal principles, which provide the foundational understanding





so everyone in the Army can interpret it the same way. ADRPs are publications of less than 100 pages and approved by the Combined Arms Center CG.



FM. The main body of an FM contains a maximum of 200 pages and describes how the Army executes operations described in ADPs. The Combined Arms Center CG as the Training and Doctrine Command proponent for Army doctrine approves FMs.



ATP. These publications consist of techniques – “non-prescriptive ways or methods used to perform missions” (ADRP 1-02). ATPs have draft versions on the milWiki site, which allows inputs from the field to recommend changes to the publications. Each technique publication has an assigned proponent responsible for monitoring input via the milWiki and making changes to the authenticated publication. The approval authority is the proponent. Additional information can be found at the milWiki website.



9-7. Travel Risk Planning System.

The Travel Risk Planning System is an automated trip-planning tool that incorporates the principals of Risk Management and facilitates a dialog between supervisor and subordinate prior to travel. It is a risk mitigation program for individuals planning to travel and uses an individual travel assessment to apply risk management controls if needed.



9-8. Communication Skills.

Effectively interacting with others depends on knowing what others perceive. It relies on accepting the character, reactions, and motives of oneself and others. Interpersonal tact combines these skills, along with recognizing diversity and displaying self-control, balance, and stability in situations (ADRP 6-22).



Communication is the process of sending information to someone and the receiver understanding what you sent by overcoming any barriers. Communication is effective when your





message is clear, coherent, convincing, complete, concise, correct, credible, and controlled.



There are four steps for effective communication.



Focus your message. Plan your message before you speak, clarify your intent, and be specific on the content of the message. During this step, being clear, concise, coherent and correct are important objectives in planning your message. Using the mnemonic, BLUF (bottom line up front) will help ensure your message meets those four objectives.



Obtain the listener’s attention. Create an interest in your message and convey the importance of the message.



Overcome barriers. To overcome communication barriers you need to limit distractions, ensure you have the listener’s attention, and ask for feedback. If needed, restate your message to ensure it is fully understood.



Active listening. Active listening helps the listener receive and understand the message. First, concentrate on what is being communicated. Second, analyze the message to gain a better understanding of the message. Finally, respond to the message verbally or nonverbally to show your understanding.



9-9. Soldier Competencies.

Nearly a decade of conflict has shown the Army that it is extraordinarily difficult to prepare Soldiers for every battlefield contingency. Instead, Soldiers and leaders must master a set of critical core competencies that provide a foundation for operational adaptability. The nine 21st century Soldier competencies listed below are the learning outcomes for the continuous adaptive learning model. The 21st century Soldier competencies are introduced during initial military training, and then reinforced at levels of increasing depth and complexity across the career span (TC 7-22.7, paragraph 4.7).





Character and Accountability. Soldiers and leaders demonstrate Army values, the Soldier’s Creed, and Warrior Ethos through action while also developing character and accountability in subordinates. They accept obligations of service before self and for assigned tasks, missions, their subordinates, and themselves while building confidence in leaders, peers, and subordinates that they can count on to accomplish goals. Soldier and leader actions are guided by the Army Ethic, which consists of the shared values, beliefs, ideals, and principles held by the Army Profession of Arms and embedded in its culture that are taught to, internalized by, and practiced by all Soldiers.



Comprehensive Fitness. Soldiers and leaders develop and maintain individual, as well as that of their subordinates, physical, emotional, social, Family, and spiritual fitness. They display physical, mental, and emotional persistence, quickly recover from difficult situations, and exemplify the resilience necessary to fight and win in any operational situation.



Adaptability and Initiative. Soldiers and leaders are comfortable operating in unexpected situations throughout the world. They scan the environment, identify unique or unexpected conditions, and adjust to handle situation effectively. Soldiers and leaders recognize when standard procedures are not an effective solution to a situation and use innovation to develop new procedures, devices, and others, that are necessary to handle the situation. Mental agility and a global mindset allow them to anticipate changes in the operational environment, adapt to the changes, and anticipate the second and third order effects of their actions and decisions. Soldiers and leaders take appropriate action and prudent risks in the absence of orders or in situations that require modifying orders to achieve the commander’s intent while also developing initiative and risk taking in subordinates. They anticipate changes in the operational environment, assess the situation, and use sound judgment to decide when and how to act. Self-awareness allows Soldiers and leaders to monitor and adjust





their actions and those of their teams to constantly assess performance and seek improvement.



Lifelong Learner. A lifelong learner is someone who uses both formal and informal learning opportunities throughout their lives in order to foster the continuous development and improvement of the knowledge and skills needed for employment and personal fulfilment. Soldiers and leaders continually assess themselves, identify what they need to learn and use skills that help them to effectively acquire and update knowledge, skills, and attitudes. Understanding this concept is paramount in your career progression as you move up in rank. This is depicted in Figure 9-1 of Structured Self Development (SSD). Your advancement to the next rank and job position depends highly on your ability to fulfill the requirements at your current level in order to bridge the gap and cross over to the next.



Figure 9-1. Bridging the Gap



SSD Level I tasks focus on team level Soldier and common leader skills. Soldiers are auto enrolled by Human Resources Command (HRC) into SSD I upon completing Basic Combat Training or One-Station Unit Training. Soldiers must complete SSD I prior to attending the Basic Leader Course.



SSD Level II tasks focus on squad level leaders preparing their subordinate elements for peace, wartime missions and contingency operations. Soldiers are auto enrolled by HRC into SSD II upon completion of the Basic Leader Course and promotion to Sergeant (E-5). Completion is a prerequisite for attendance to the Advanced Leader Course, and a recommendation for Staff Sergeant (E-6).





SSD Level III tasks are focused on platoon level functions. All promotable sergeants and staff sergeants who graduate from the Advanced Leader Course are auto enrolled by HRC into SSD III. Completion is a prerequisite for attendance to the Senior Leader Course, and eligibility for consideration for promotion to Sergeant First Class (E-7).



SSD Level IV tasks are focused on company and battalion level functions. All promotable staff sergeants, and sergeants first class, who graduate from the Senior Leader Course, are auto enrolled by HRC into SSD IV. Completion is a prerequisite for attendance to the Master Leader Course and eligibility for consideration for promotion to Master Sergeant (E-8).



SSD V tasks are focused on nominative and joint staff levels. All Promotable master sergeants and sergeants major are auto enrolled by HRC into SSD V upon completion of the sergeant major course or its equivalent. Completion of SSD V is a prerequisite for attendance to the Sergeants Major Course and it is a prerequisite to be considered for nominative and joint assignments.



Teamwork and Collaboration. When we work together to achieve a common goal the world sees the enormous strength of the people of the United States. Teamwork has been a defining quality of our Army. It overcomes individual shortcomings, builds confidence in the units and enhances our courage, and magnifies our commitment to succeed. Soldiers and leaders create high-performing formal and informal groups by leading, motivating, and influencing individuals and partners to work toward common goals effectively. They are effective team members, understand team dynamics, and take appropriate action to foster trust, cohesion, communication, cooperation, effectiveness, and dependability within the team. Leaders build teams, seek multiple perspectives, alternative viewpoints, and manage team conflict.





Communication and Engagement. Soldiers and leaders express themselves clearly and succinctly in oral, written, and digital communications. They use interpersonal tact, influence, and communication to build effective working relationships and social networks that facilitate knowledge acquisition and provide feedback necessary for continuous improvement. Soldiers and leaders inform and educate U.S., allied, and other relevant publics and actors to gain and maintain trust, confidence, and support. Engagement is characterized by a comprehensive commitment to transparency, accountability, and credibility, and is an imperative of 21st century operations.



Critical Thinking and Problem Solving. Soldiers and leaders analyze and evaluate thinking, with a view to improving it. They solve complex problems by using experiences, training, education, critical questioning, convergent, critical and creative thinking, and collaboration to develop solutions. Throughout their careers, Soldiers and leaders continue to analyze information and hone thinking skills while handling problems of increasing complexity. Select leaders also develop strategic thinking skills necessary for assignments at the national level.



Tactical and Technical Competence. Soldiers and leaders employ tactical and technical skills in support of unified land operations to accomplish the mission and support the commander’s intent. They are experts on weapons systems, combined arms operations, and train their subordinates to be technically and tactically competent. At lower levels, they are technical experts in their specialty and continue to develop their technical skills and those in their subordinates. As leaders grow, they increase their understanding and application of mission command, operational contexts, systems, and technology while operating in increasingly complex environments. Soldiers and leaders are prepared to execute offensive, defensive, stability, and defense support of civil authorities throughout the range of military operations and transition between diverse tasks and operational





actions as complex and uncertain operational situations are developed through action. Leaders anticipate tactical, operational, and strategic transitions and use mission command to apply lethal and nonlethal effects to achieve the commander's intent.



Cultural and Joint, Interagency, Intergovernmental, and Multinational Competence. Soldiers and leaders use cultural fundamentals, self-awareness skills, and regional competence to act effectively in any situation. They use communication, including foreign language, influence, and relational skills to work effectively in varied cultural and joint, interagency, intergovernmental, and multinational contexts. Soldiers and leaders consider and are sensitive to socially transmitted behavior patterns and beliefs of individuals from other communities and/or countries and effectively partner, influence, and operate in complex joint, interagency, intergovernmental, and multinational environments.



9-10.	Culture.

Culture forms the basis of how people interpret, understand, and respond to events and people around them. Cultural understanding is critical because who a society considers legitimate will often be determined by culture and norms. There are many definitions of culture in use by the U.S. military. Culture is a web of meaning shared by members of a particular society or group within a society (FM 3-24).

The way that a culture influences how people view their world is referred to as their worldview. Many people believe they view their world accurately, in a logical, rational, unbiased way. However, people filter what they see and experience according to their beliefs and worldviews. Information and experiences that do not match what they believe to be true about the world are frequently rejected or distorted to fit the way they believe the world should work. More than any other factor, culture informs and influences their worldview. In other words, culture influences perceptions, understandings, and interpretations of events. Soldiers





need to know that U.S. interpretations of events are often quite different from that of other people in a certain area of operation. If the U.S. military assume that the local population will perceive actions the way that they do, they are likely to misjudge their reactions. The U.S. military refers to this pattern of assuming that others see events in the same way the U.S. does as mirror imaging. Mirror imaging is dangerous because it leads the U.S. military personnel into thinking that their assumptions about a problem and its solution are shared by the population and multinational partners, rather than employing perspective taking, and looking at the problem from the population’s perspective.



Culture is learned and shared. Children learn the appropriate way to act in a culture by observing other people; by being taught accepted values and ways of thinking about the world from their parents, teachers and others; and by practicing (sharing) what they have learned on a daily basis. This process of learning a new culture is called socialization. Culture can be learned at any age. Soldiers, for example, learn military culture by going through basic training or officer training in their late teens or early twenties. In fact, these initial training schools recognize their important role in socializing young men and women into core Army Values. As a result, Army basic training curriculums include not only classes on marksmanship, but also classes on ethics and core values. In all operations, understanding that culture is learned and shared can offer an important operational and tactical opportunity. Any Soldier can learn about the culture of the population simply by interacting with the local people. One of the more successful adaptations of the U.S. military in Iraq and Afghanistan occurred when Soldiers realized they could learn a lot about the local culture by talking to and observing their interpreters. Their enhanced understanding of the cultures of their areas of operations enabled them to better negotiate with leaders, to conduct operations that would be successful, and in a number of





cases (such as the al-Anbar Awakening), to gain the support and assistance of the population in fighting an insurgency.

9-11.	Military Justice-Soldier Rights.

The source of military law comes from two provisions of the U.S. Constitution, those vesting certain powers in the legislative branch and those granting certain authority to the executive branch. In addition, the Fifth Amendment recognizes that offenses in the Armed Forces are dealt with in accordance with military law. It is a Soldier’s duty to abide by laws and regulation, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, for as long as they are in the Army. Soldiers obey and promptly execute the legal orders of their lawful superiors. Laws and regulations are part of everyday life. UCMJ gives us judicial authority, which is essential to the Army’s ability to accomplish its mission. The UCMJ is the statute that defines criminal offenses for Soldiers.



The Manual for Courts-Martial (MCM) (2012 Edition) is an extensive book. It contains UCMJ and instructs military lawyers and judges on how to conduct courts-martial. It is also where nonjudicial punishment (Article 15) is found. The MCM explains what conduct is in violation of the UCMJ, sets forth rules of evidence, contains a list of maximum punishments for each offense and explains types of court-martials.



Soldiers who are suspected of committing a crime have rights against self-incrimination and the right to obtain legal counsel. If a commander chooses to address a Soldier’s alleged misconduct by a non-judicial hearing under provisions of Article 15 of the UCMJ, or to convene a court-martial, then the Soldier will have access to legal counsel who will explain the Soldier’s rights throughout the process.



Most courts-martial are preceded by “a pretrial investigation” (long known as an Article 32 investigation). This is an investigation by an officer, usually from the same installation,





that tries to determine if there is enough evidence to take the case to a court-martial. It can be referred to as having a grand jury in the civilian legal system. The pretrial investigation will also determine if the charges are correct and how to proceed with the case, whether by court-martial, non-judicial punishment, administrative action, or even no action at all.



Making the right decision is critical for the Soldier receiving the punishment as well as the individual administering punishment under the UCMJ. Refer to AR 27-10, MCM (2012 Edition), or visit your installation legal office for additional information.



Article 15. Commanders may determine that misconduct is not serious enough to warrant punishment by court-martial. For less serious offenses, the UCMJ also gives commanders the authority to impose nonjudicial punishment, described in the UCMJ under Article 15. Article 15 provides commanders with authority to impose punishment for relatively minor infractions. Only commanders may impose punishment under Article 15. A commander is any warrant officer or commissioned officer that is in command of a unit and given authority under AR 600-20, orally or in writing, to administer nonjudicial punishment.



The Soldier is informed that the commander has started nonjudicial punishment (Article 15) procedures against him or her. Once the commander has conducted the hearing and if he or she decides that the accused is (a) guilty and (b) needs to be punished, the commander will prescribe punishment that fits the offense(s). Soldiers may present evidence at Article 15 hearings. Evidence would be something that shows a Soldier is not guilty of the alleged offense(s). A Soldier may also present matters in extenuation and mitigation, which are reasons why he or she should be punished less or not at all.





The level of proof is the same at both an Article 15 hearing and a court-martial; the imposing commander must be convinced of the accused Soldier’s guilt by the evidence presented before the Soldier can be found guilty. Whatever the outcome of the hearing, an Article 15 is not a conviction and will not appear in the Soldier’s civilian record. On the other hand, if Soldiers demand a trial by court-martial and are convicted, this would be a federal conviction that would stay with them even after they leave the Army. No lawyers are involved in the Article 15 hearing; however, the Soldier has the right to speak with an attorney prior to accepting proceedings under Article 15. There is also no prosecutor at an Article 15 hearing. At a court-martial, a military lawyer may represent the accused at no cost to the Soldier, and a prosecutor present.



If Soldiers believe that the punishment they received was excessive, or the evidence on their behalf was not properly considered, they may appeal to the next level of command within five days. Soldiers are not entitled to a personal appearance in front of the appeal authority (although they may request one) so they should include written statements as to why the appeal should be granted. If the Soldier does not submit these statements, the appeal authority may never get to hear the accused side of what happened. The appeal authority can take any action to lessen the punishment but may not increase the punishment given by the original commander.



Article 15s come in different levels: summarized, company grade, and field grade. They differ in two main respects: the severity of the punishment and in how the record of it can affect a Soldier’s future in the Army. Maximum punishments are shown in Table 9-3 on page 9-18.





Table 9-3. Maximum Punishments in Article 15





Glossary

The glossary lists acronyms and terms.



ABCP	Army body composition program ACS	 Army community service

ACT	Army career tracker

ADP	Army doctrine publication

ADRP	 Army doctrine reference publication AER	Army emergency relief

AFAP	Army Family advocacy program AFTB	Army Family team building

AIT	 advanced individual training APFT	Army physical fitness test

AR	Army regulation ARNG	Army National Guard

ATN	Army training network

ATP	Army techniques publications AWOL	absent without leave

BAH	basic allowance for housing

BOSS	 better opportunities for single Soldiers CG	commanding general

CMH	 center of military history COC	code of conduct

CTA	common table of allowances CYSS	child youth and school services

DEERS	defense enrollment eligibility reporting system

DOD	Department of Defense

DODD		Department of Defense directive DODI		 Department of Defense instruction DOR	date of rank

EFMP	exceptional Family member program EO	equal opportunity



Glossary



FM	field manual

GTA	graphic training aid

HQDA	Headquarters Department of the Army HRAP	hometown recruiting assistance program

IG	inspector general

MCM			 manual of courts-martial METL			mission essential task list MOS	military occupational specialty MWR		morale welfare and recreation

NCO	noncommissioned officer

OCIE	organizational clothing and individual equipment

PCS	 permanent change of station PRT	 physical readiness training SFL	Soldier for life

SHARP	sexual harassment/assault response and prevention

TA	tuition assistance

TASP	total Army sponsorship program TC	training circular

TDA	table distribution authorization TIG	time in grade

TOE	table of organization and equipment TIS	time in service

UCMJ	 uniform code of military justice USAR	United States Army Reserve

USO	United Services Organization VA	victim advocate



Character	Dedication and adherence to the Army Ethic, including Army Values, as consistently and faithfully demonstrated in decisions and actions.



Glossary



Command	The authority that a commander in the

armed forces lawfully exercises over subordinates by virtue of rank or assignment. Command includes the authority and responsibility for effectively using available resources and for planning the employment of, organizing, directing, coordinating, and controlling military forces for the accomplishment of assigned missions. It also includes responsibility for health, welfare, morale, and discipline of assigned personnel. (JP 1-02)



Commitment	Resolve to contribute Honorable Service to

the Nation and accomplish the mission despite adversity, obstacles, and challenge.



Competence	Demonstrated ability to successfully

perform duties with discipline and to standard.









































This page intentionally left blank.



References

These are the sources used in the development of this publication.



REQUIRED PUBLICATIONS

Most Army doctrinal publications are available online: http://www.apd.army.mil/.

ADRP 1-02. Terms and Military Symbols. 2 February 2015.



Most joint publications are available online: http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/index.html

JP 1-02. Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms. 8 November 2010.



RELATED PUBLICATIONS



Department of Defense and Joint Publications

Most joint publications are available online: http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/index.html

DFAS-IN Regulation 37-1. Finance and Accounting. 8 December 2014.

DOD 5500.7-R. Joint Ethics Regulation. 30 August 1993.

DODD 6495.01. Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program. 23 January 2012.

DODI 5505.18. Investigation of Adult Sexual Assault in the Department of Defense. 25 January 2013.

DODI 6495.02. Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program Procedures. 28 March 2013.

JTR. Joint Travel Regulation. 1 October 2014.

MCM 2012. Manual for Courts-Martial United States (2012 Edition). 5 April 2012. http://www.apd.army.mil/ProductMaps/Administrative/MCM. aspx.



Army Publications

Most Army doctrinal publications are available online: http://www.apd.army.mil/.





ADP 1. The Army. 17 September 2012.

ADP 3-0. Unified Land Operations. 10 October 2011.

ADP 6-22. Army Leadership. 1 August 2012.

ADP 7-0. Training Units and Developing Leaders. 23 August 2012.

ADRP 1. The Army Profession. 14 June 2015.

ADRP 1-03. The Army Universal Task List. 2 October 2015. ADRP 6-22. Army Leadership. 1 August 2012.

ADRP 7-0. Training Units and Developing Leaders. 23 August 2012.

AR 15-6. Procedures for Investigating Officers and Boards of Officers. 2 October 2006.

AR 27-10. Military Justice. 3 October 2011.

AR 71-32. Force Development and Documentation. 1 July 2013.

AR 215-1. Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Programs and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities. 24 September 2010.

AR 350-1. Army Training and Leader Development. 19 August 2014.

AR 405-45. Real Property Inventory Management. 1 November 2004.

AR 525-28. Personnel Recovery. 5 March 2010.

AR 600-8-8. The Total Army Sponsorship Program. 4 April 2006. AR 600-8-10. Leaves and Passes. 15 February 2006.

AR 600-8-19. Enlisted Promotions and Reductions. 2 February 2015.

AR 600-9. The Army Body Composition Program. 28 June 2013. AR 600-20. Army Command Policy. 6 November 2014.

AR 601-2. Army Promotional Recruiting Support Programs. 2 March 2010.

AR 601-280. Army Retention Program. 31 January 2006.

AR 608-1. Army Community Service. 12 March 2013.

AR 635-200. Active Duty Enlisted Administrative Separations. 6 June 2005.





AR 670-1. Wear and Appearance of Army Uniforms and Insignia.

10 April 2015.

AR 700-131. Loan, Lease, and Donation of Army Materiel. 23 August 2004.

AR 710-2. Supply Policy below the National Level. 28 March 2008.

AR 735-5. Property Accountability Policies. 10 May 2013.

AR 840-1. Department of the Army Seal, and Department of the Army Emblem and Branch of Service Plaques. 19 February 2009

AR 840-10. Flags, Guidons, Streamers, Tabards, and Automobile and Aircraft Plates. 1 November 1998.

ATP 5-19. Risk Management. 14 April 2014.

ATP 6-22.1. The Counseling Process. 1 July 2014.

CTA 50-900. Clothing and Individual Equipment. 20 November 2008.

CTA 50-909. Field and Garrison Furnishings and Equipment. 1 August 1993.

DA Pam 385-30. Risk Management. 2 December 2014. DA Pam 600-25. U.S. Army Noncommissioned Officer

Professional Development Guide. 11 September 2015.

DA Pam 710-2-1. Using Unit Supply System (Manual Procedures).

31 December 1997.

DA Pam 710-2-2. Supply Support Activity Supply System: Manual Procedures. 30 September 1998.

FM 3-24. Insurgencies and Countering Insurgencies. 13 May 2014.

FM 7-22. Army Physical Readiness Training. 26 October 2012.

GTA 21-03-009. Code of Conduct. 1 August 1989.

GTA 22-06-004. Army Values/Soldier’s Creed Card. 10 August 2004.

TC 3-21.5. Drill and Ceremonies. 20 January 2012.

TC 7-22.7. Noncommissioned Officer Guide. 7 April 2015.





Other Publications

Most civilian books are available at a military installation or public libraries.

Brunye, Riccio, Sidman, Darowski, and Diedrich. “Enhancing Warrior Ethos in Initial Entry Training”, Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual Meeting, October 2006. Available at http://www.hfes.org/publications/

Center for the Army Profession and Ethic. Army Profession of Arms. 7 October 2010. Available at http://cape.army.mil/

Center of Military History. Department of the Army Emblem. 25 February 2000. Available at http://www.history.army.mil/

Center of Military History. Oaths of Enlistment and Oaths of Office. 14 June 2011. Available at http://www.history.army.mil/

Declaration of Independence. 4 July 1776. Available at http://www.archives.gov/exhibits/charters/

Mack, William P., Seymour, Harry A., and McComas, Lesa A. The Naval Officer’s Guide. Naval Institute Press. Annapolis, MD. 1998. (ISBN 1-55750-645-0)

The Institute of Heraldry. History of U.S. Army Enlisted Ranks. (n.d.). Available at http://www.tioh.hqda.pentagon.mil/

United States Army Installation Management Command. First Sergeant’s Barracks Program 2020 Handbook, 26 March 2014. Available at http://www.imcom.army.mil/



United States Law

Most acts and public laws are available at http://thomas.loc.gov/home/thomas.php.

Title 10. United Sates Code. Armed Forces. Title 32. United States Code. National Guard.



WEBSITES

Army Career Tracker (ACT). Available at https://actnow.army.mil/ Army G1 Equal Opportunity Branch Home Page. Available at

http://www.armyg1.army.mil/eo/





Army Publishing Directorate. Available at http://www.apd.army.mil/

Army SHARP Home Page. Available at http://www.sexualassault.army.mil/

Army Training Network. Available at https://atn.army.mil/ Center of Military History (CMH). Available at

http://www.history.army.mil/

Center for the Army Profession and Ethic (CAPE). Available at http://cape.army.mil/

Defense Travel Management Office. Available at http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/

Department of Defense. Available at http://www.defense.gov Military One Source Home Page. Available at

http://www.militaryonesource.mil/ milWiki. Available at

https://www.milsuite.mil/wiki/Portal:Army_Doctrine My Army Benefits. Available at

http://myarmybenefits.us.army.mil/ The Charters of Freedom. Available at

http://www.archives.gov/exhibits/charters/ The Institute of Heraldry. Available at

http://www.tioh.hqda.pentagon.mil/

The United States Army Home Page. Available at http://www.army.mil/

The United States Army War College. Available at http://www.carlisle.army.mil/index.htm

Uniformed Code of Military Justice. Available at http://www.ucmj.us/

United States Army Central Army Registry (CAR). Available at https://rdl.train.army.mil/



RECOMMENDED READING

Most civilian books are available at a military installation or public libraries.





Ambrose, Stephen E. Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest. Touchstone Books. New York. 1993.

Atkinson, Rick. The Long Gray Line. Owl Books. New York.

1999.

Brokaw, Tom. The Greatest Generation. Random House. New York. 1998.

Fehrenbach, T. R. This Kind of War: The Classic Korean War History. Brassey's. Dulles, VA. 2000.

Heller, Charles E. and Stofft, William A. America's First Battles: 1776-1965. University Press of Kansas. Lawrence. 1986.

Hogan, David W. Jr. A Concise History of the U.S. Army: 225 Years of Service. Center of Military History. U.S. Army. Washington, DC. 2000.

Keegan, John. The Face of Battle. Viking Press. New York. 1995. Moore, Lieutenant General (LTG) Harold G. and Galloway,

Joseph L. We Were Soldiers Once…and Young: Ia Drang -The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam. Harper Perennial. New York. 1992.

Myrer, Anton. Once an Eagle. Harper Collins. New York. 2000. Shaara, Michael. The Killer Angels. Ballantine Books. New York.

1974.

U.S. Constitution. Available at http://www.archives.gov/exhibits/charters/



PRESCRIBED FORMS

None.



REFERENCED FORMS

Unless otherwise indicated, DA Forms are available on the Army Publishing Directorate (APD) web site: www.apd.army.mil; DD forms are available on the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) web site: www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/index.htm

DA Form 31. Request and Authority for Leave.





DA Form 2028. Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.

DA Form 5305. Family Care Plan.

DA Form 5434. Sponsorship Program Counseling and Information Sheet.

DA Form 5960. Authorization to Start, Stop, or Change Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ), and/or Variable Housing Allowance (VHA).

DA Form 7279. Equal Opportunity Complaint Form.









































This page intentionally left blank.



TC 7-21.13

30 November 2015





















By Order of the Secretary of the Army









MARK A. MILLEY

General, United States Army Chief of Staff







Official:

GERALD B. O'KEEFE

Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Army 1530703













DISTRIBUTION:

Active Army, Army National Guard, and United States Army Reserve. To be distributed in accordance with initial distribution number (IDN) 116062, requirements for TC 7-21.13.

























































































PIN: 105749-000

