


Table 2 – 4



Performance evaluation–professionalism and Army Values for DA Form 67 – 10 – 1 — Continued





— Comments are mandatory and should compare the performance of the rated officer with their contemporaries during the evalua-tion period (see AR 623 – 3). This focus is on the results achieved and the manner by which they were achieved.

— Exception requirements exist for when a senior rater is serving as both rater and senior rater (see table 2 – 6).



Reference: ADP 6 – 22 and ADRP 6 – 22





DA Form 67 – 10 – 1, part IV: block c.1—Character



Character encompasses elements internal and central to the leader’s core consisting of Army Values, empathy, Warrior Ethos, Ser-vice Ethos, and discipline. Character is comprised of a person’s moral and ethical qualities, helps determine what is right, and gives a leader motivation to do what is appropriate, regardless of the circumstances or consequences. It determines who people are, how they act, helps determine right from wrong, and choose what is right.



Action required: Rating officials will comment on how well the rated officer promoted a climate of dignity and respect and adhered to the requirements of the SHARP program. This assessment should identify, as appropriate, any significant actions or contributions the rated officer made toward promoting the personal and professional development of subordinates; ensuring the fair, respectful treat-ment of unit personnel; and establishing a workplace and overall command climate that fosters dignity and respect for all members of the unit. This assessment should also identify any failures by the rated officer to foster a climate of dignity and respect and adhere to the SHARP program. Additional comments may be explained and entered in part IV, blocks c.1 though c.6 (if required).



Raters will comment on any substantiated finding in an Army or DOD investigation or inquiry that the rated officer— a. Committed an act of sexual harassment or sexual assault; b. Failed to report a sexual harassment or sexual assault;



c. Failed to respond to a complaint or report of sexual harassment or sexual assault; or



d. Retaliated against a person making a complaint or report of sexual harassment or sexual assault.



Army Values consist of the principles, standards, and qualities considered essential for successful Army leaders. They are fundamen-tal to helping Soldiers and DA Civilians make the right decision in any situation. Army Values are an important leader responsibility and an expected standard. Comments, when provided, will refer to a specific value and be included in the narrative (for example, “A solid, trustworthy officer whose integrity is beyond reproach.”). A list of Army Values and their definitions follow (see ADRP 6 – 22 for a more detailed explanation).



a. Loyalty: bears true faith and allegiance to the U.S. Constitution, the Army, the unit, and other Soldiers.



b. Duty: fulfills obligations (professional, legal, and moral).



c. Respect: treats people as they should be treated.



d. Selfless Service: puts the welfare of the Nation, the Army, and subordinates’ priorities before self.



e. Honor: adheres to the Army’s publicly declared code of values.



f. Integrity: does what is right, legally and morally.



g. Personal Courage: faces fear, danger, or adversity (physical and moral).



Empathy:the ability to see something from another person’s point of view, to identify with, and enter into another person’s feelings and emotions. Empathy allows the leader to anticipate what others are experiencing and to try to envision how decisions or actions affect them. Army leaders display empathy when they genuinely relate to another person’s situation, motives, and feelings. Empathy does not necessarily mean sympathy for another, but identification that leads to a deeper understanding.



Warrior Ethos and Service Ethos: the professional attitudes and beliefs that characterize the American Soldier. They reflect a Sol-dier’s selfless commitment to the Nation, mission, unit, and fellow Soldiers. These ethos are developed and sustained through disci-pline, commitment to the Army Values, and pride in the Army’s heritage. The key to the Warrior Ethos and Service Ethos are not only physical, tactical, and technical training, but also a mindset developed through purposeful mental preparation.



Discipline: at the individual level, this is primarily self-discipline, the ability to control one’s own behavior. Discipline expresses what the Army Values require—willingly doing what is right. Discipline involves attending to the details of organization and administration, which are less urgent than an organization’s key tasks, but necessary for efficiency and long-term effectiveness. Examples include an effective Command Supply Discipline Program, Organizational Inspection Programs, and training management. Reference: ADP 6 – 22 and ADRP 6 – 22





DA Form 67 – 10 – 1, part IV: block c.2—Presence

Presence is the impression a leader makes on others contributing to his or her success in leading them. This impression is the sum of a leader’s outward appearance, demeanor, actions, and words. Presence incorporates a leader’s effectiveness when demonstrating military and profession bearing, fitness, confidence, and resilience.



Military and professional bearing: projecting a commanding presence, a professional image of authority.















Table 2 – 4



Performance evaluation–professionalism and Army Values for DA Form 67 – 10 – 1 — Continued





Fitness: having sound health, strength, and endurance, which sustain emotional health and conceptual abilities under prolonged stress.



Confidence: projecting self-confidence and certainty in the unit’s ability to succeed in whatever it does; able to demonstrate compo-sure and outward calm through steady control over emotion.



Resilience: the psychological and physical capacity to bounce back from life’s stressors repeatedly to thrive in an era of high opera-tional tempo.



Reference: ADP 6 – 22 and ADRP 6 – 22





DA Form 67 – 10 – 1, part IV: block c.3—Intellect



Intellect draws on the mental tendencies and resources that shape conceptual abilities applied to one’s duties and responsibilities. Conceptual abilities enable effective problem solving and sound judgment before implementing concepts and plans. They help one think creatively and reason analytically, critically, ethically, and with cultural sensitivity to consider unintended as well as intended consequences, helping leaders anticipate the second- and third-order effects of their actions. The conceptual components affecting an Army leader’s intellect include mental agility, sound judgment, innovation, interpersonal tact, and expertise.



Mental agility: a flexibility of mind, an ability to anticipate or adapt to uncertain or changing situations. Agility enables thinking through second- and third-order effects when current decisions or actions are not producing the desired results.



Sound judgment: the capacity to assess situations shrewdly and to draw rational conclusions. Consistent good judgment enables leaders to form sound opinions and make reliable estimates and sensible decisions. Good judgment includes the ability to assess subordinates, peers, and the enemy for strengths and weaknesses to create appropriate solutions and action.



Innovation: the ability to introduce something new when needed or as opportunities exist. Being innovative includes creativity in pro-ducing original and worthwhile ideas. Innovative leaders tend to be inquisitive and good problem solvers. Innovative leaders prevent complacency by finding new ways to challenge subordinates with forward-looking approaches and ideas by relying on intuition, expe-rience, knowledge, and input from subordinates.



Interpersonal tact: interacting with others depends on knowing what others perceive. It relies on accepting the character, reactions, and motives of oneself and others. Interpersonal tact combines these skills, along with recognizing diversity and displaying self-con-trol, balance, and stability in situations.



Expertise: the special knowledge and skill developed from experience, training, and education. Domain knowledge is what leaders know about application areas used in their duties and positions. Leaders create and use knowledge in at least four domains. Tactical knowledge relates to accomplishing a designated objective through military means. Technical knowledge consists of the specialized information associated with a particular function or system. Joint knowledge is an understanding of joint organizations, their proce-dures, and roles in national defense. Cultural and geopolitical knowledge is awareness of cultural, geographic, and political differ-ences and sensitivities.



Reference: ADP 6 – 22 and ADRP 6 – 22





DA Form 67 – 10 – 1, part IV: block c.4—Leads



Leads encompasses five competencies: leads others, extends influence beyond the chain of command, builds trust, leads by exam-ple, and communicates. Rating officials may provide additional comments, if needed, evaluating the rated officer on how well the rated officer promoted a climate of dignity and respect and adhered to the requirements of the SHARP program.



Leads others: measures the ability to influence Soldiers and DA Civilians in the leader’s organization. Leaders apply character, pres-ence, and intellect to the core leader competencies while guiding others toward a common goal and mission accomplishment. Direct leaders influence others person-to-person, such as a team leader who instructs, encourages hard work, and recognizes achievement. At the direct level, a platoon leader knows what a battalion (BN) commander wants done because the lieutenant understands the commander’s intent two levels up. The intent creates a critical link between the organizational and direct leadership levels.



Extends influence beyond the chain of command: involves influencing others when the leader does not have designated authority or when the leader’s authority is not recognized by others. Influence refers to how people create and relay their messages, behaviors, and attitudes to affect the intentions, beliefs, behaviors, and attitudes of another person or group of people. Influence depends upon relationships where leaders build positive rapport and a relationship of mutual trust, making followers more willing to support re-quests. Examples include showing personal interest in a follower’s well-being, offering praise, and understanding a follower’s per-spective.









24	DA PAM 623–3 • 27 September 2019





Table 2 – 4



Performance evaluation–professionalism and Army Values for DA Form 67 – 10 – 1 — Continued





Builds trust: encompasses reliance upon others, confidence in their abilities, and consistency in behavior. Trust builds over time through mutual respect, shared understanding, and common experiences. Communication contributes to trust by keeping others in-formed, establishing expectations, and developing commitments. Sustaining trust depends on meeting those expectations and com-mitments. Trust forms and fosters when leaders create a positive command climate by identifying areas of common interest and goals. Teams develop trust through cooperation, identification with other members, and contribution to the team effort.



Leads by example: living by the Army Values and the Warrior Ethos that best displays character and leading by example. It means putting the organization and subordinates above personal self-interest, career, and comfort. For the Army leader, it requires putting the lives of others above a personal desire for self-preservation.



Communicates: ensures there is more than the simple transmission of information. It achieves a new understanding and creates new



or better awareness. Communicating critical information clearly is an important skill to reach shared understanding of issues and solu-



tions. It conveys thoughts, presents recommendations, bridges cultural sensitivities, and reaches consensus. Actions can speak



louder than words and excellent leaders use this to serve as a role model to set the standard. Leaders communicate to convey clear



understanding of what needs to be done and why.



Reference: ADP 6 – 22 and ADRP 6 – 22





DA Form 67 – 10 – 1, part IV: block c.5—Develops



Developing people and the organization with a long-term perspective requires leaders who—



— Create a positive environment that fosters esprit de corps and teamwork, promotes cohesion, and encourages initiative and ac-ceptance of responsibility. A leader maintains a healthy balance between caring for people and their Families while focusing on the mission.



— Seek self-improvement to master the profession at every level. A leader must make a full commitment to lifelong learning. Self-improvement requires self-awareness and leads to new skills necessary to adapt to changes in the leadership environment.



— Invest adequate time and effort to develop individual subordinates and build effective teams. Success demands a fine balance of teaching, counseling, coaching, and mentoring.



— Act as stewards of the profession, making choices and taking actions that ensure that leaders in the future sustain an Army capa-ble of performing its core functions.



— The rater will comment on how well the officer promoted and supported a healthy workplace environment conducive to the growth and development of personnel when completing the OER.



— Rating officials may provide additional comments, if needed, evaluating the rated officer on how well the rated officer promoted a climate of dignity and respect and adhered to the requirements of the SHARP program.

Reference: ADP 6 – 22 and ADRP 6 – 22





DA Form 67 – 10 – 1, part IV: block c.6–Achieves



Achieves focuses on accomplishing the mission. Mission accomplishment coexists with an extended perspective towards maintaining and building the organization’s capabilities.

— Achieving begins in the short-term by setting objectives.



— In the long term, achieving requires getting results in pursuit of those objectives.



— Getting results focuses on structuring what to do to produce consistent results. Getting results embraces all actions to get the job done on time and to standard.

— Results are measured in how well the leader provided direction, guidance, and clear priorities, guiding teams in what needs to be done and how. This, combined with monitoring performance to identify strengths and correct weaknesses in organizations, groups, and individuals, allows for accomplishing missions consistently and ethically.

Reference: ADP 6 – 22 and ADRP 6 – 22





2 – 7. Part V, Intermediate rater (if applicable)



Part V of DA Form 67 – 10 – 1 is used only if an intermediate rater is included in the rating chain. Part V is for the interme-diate rater’s assessment of the rated officer’s performance and potential. This is the only part of the DA Form 67 – 10 – 1 that is completed by the intermediate rater. Table 2 – 5 details instructions for completing part V.















Table 4 – 2



Academic achievement for DA Form 1059 — Continued





— For rated Soldiers having an approved DCS, G – 1 waiver, the entire entry will be left blank. The academic rater will enter the fol-lowing statement in part II, block l “Rated Soldier has a DCS, G – 1 waiver of compliance with AR 600 – 9.” In such cases, a copy of the DCS, G – 1 approval memo will be submitted as an enclosure to the DA Form 1059.



— Compliance with AR 600 – 9, the height and weight standards of AR 600 – 9 apply at all times, even when the Soldier is deployed for combat or contingency operations.



— When a course requirement, this entry will not be left blank other than the exceptions indicated above.



— When not a course requirement and the entry is left blank, the academic rater will provide a full explanation for the absence within part II, block l.



Reference: AR 600 – 9, AR 350 – 1, and AR 40 – 501





DA Form 1059, part II: block d—Overall grade point average (GPA)



Action required:



— In the space after “overall grade point average,” the academic rater will enter the rated Soldiers accumulative GPA.



— In the space after “of,” the academic rater will enter the maximum GPA the student can receive based on the grading system es-tablished by the school.



— If the course does not require a GPA, this entry will be left blank.



Reference: None





DA Form 1059, part II: block e1—Skill identifier (SI)



Action required: Enter the appropriate skill identifier (SI) for the appropriate skill identifier awarded during the course or individual course phase.

— Example SI entries will be “ASI”–Additional Skill Identifier, “SQI”–Skill Qualifications Identifier, or “PDI”–Project development Skill Identifier.

— If a multiphase course, and award of the skill identifier requires all phases be complete, the skill identifier will only be entered on the final “course completion” reason for submission DA Form 1059, regardless of phase sequence completion. For example, if a 3-phase course (one, two, and three) is taken out of sequence (two, one, and three) where the skill identifier is awarded during phase two, and the course completion is phase three, the skill identifier will be awarded on the “course completion” phase three DA Form 1059. This field allows up to four entries.



Note. The EES wizard application provides a drop-down menu to select the appropriate skill identifier, if awarded. Reference: AR 611 – 1 and DA Pam 611 – 21





DA Form 1059, part II: block e2—Code



Action required: Enter the appropriate SI alphanumeric code that corresponds with the respective SI selected in block e1.



— Example code entries are: “1A,” “1B,” “2B,” “2S,” “K8.”



Reference: AR 611 – 1 and DA Pam 611 – 21





DA Form 1059, part II: block f—Character/accountability



Action required: The academic rater will check the box that best indicates how well the Soldier demonstrated character and ac-countability during the course, as defined below:

— Soldiers and leaders demonstrate Army values, the Soldier’s Creed, and Warrior Ethos through action while also developing char-acter and accountability in subordinates. They accept obligations of service before self and for assigned tasks, missions, their subor-dinates, and themselves while building confidence in leaders, peers, and subordinates that they can be counted upon to accomplish goals. Soldier and leader actions are guided by the Army Ethic, which consists of the shared values, beliefs, ideals, and principles held by the Army Profession of Arms and embedded in its culture that are taught to, internalized by, and practiced by all Soldiers in full-spectrum operations as well as peacetime.



— Adhering to and internalizing the Army Ethic develops strong character, ethical reasoning and decision making, empathy for oth-ers, and the self-discipline to always do what is right for fellow Soldiers, the Army, and the Nation. Character enables the Soldier to operate in a complex and uncertain environment with the understanding that the Soldier is individually accountable for not only what is done, but also for what might not be done. The pride, esprit, and ethos required of Soldiers as members of the Profession of Arms may require them to sacrifice themselves willingly to preserve the Nation, accomplish the mission, or protect the lives of fellow Sol-diers. Qualities of character and ethical behavior will be stressed at every level.



Reference: TP 525 – 8 – 2 and paragraph 4 – 3





DA Form 1059, part II: block g—Presence/comprehensive fitness



Action required: The academic rater will check the box that best indicates how well the Soldier demonstrated presence and compre-hensive fitness during the course, as defined below:













140	DA PAM 623–3 • 27 September 2019





Table 4 – 2



Academic achievement for DA Form 1059 — Continued





Soldiers and leaders develop and maintain individual, as well as that of their subordinates, physical, emotional, social, Family, and



spiritual fitness. They display physical, mental, and emotional persistence, quickly recover from difficult situations, and exemplify the



resilience necessary to fight and win in any operational situation.



Reference: TP 525 – 8 – 2 and paragraph 4 – 3





DA Form 1059, part II: block h—Intellect/critical thinking and problem solving



Action required: The academic rater will check the box that best indicates how well the Soldier demonstrated intellect, critical think-ing, and problem solving during the course, as defined below:

Soldiers and leaders analyze and evaluate thinking, with a view to improving it. They solve complex problems by using experiences, training, education, critical questioning, convergent, critical, and creative thinking, and collaboration to develop solutions. Throughout their careers, Soldiers and leaders continue to analyze information and hone thinking skills while handling problems of increasing complexity. Select leaders also develop strategic thinking skills necessary for assignments at the national level. Reference: TP 525 – 8 – 2 and paragraph 4 – 3





DA Form 1059, part II: block i—Leads/communication and engagement



Action required: The academic rater will check the box that best indicates how well the Soldier demonstrated leadership, communi-cation, and engagement during the course, as defined below:

Soldiers and leaders express themselves clearly and succinctly in oral, written, and digital communications. They use interpersonal tact, influence, and communication to build effective working relationships and social networks that facilitate knowledge acquisition and provide feedback necessary for continuous improvement.



Soldiers and leaders inform and educate U.S., allied, and other relevant publics and actors to gain and maintain trust, confidence,



and support. Engagement is characterized by a comprehensive commitment to transparency, accountability, and credibility, and is an



imperative of 21st century operations.



Reference: TP 525 – 8 – 2 and paragraph 4 – 3





DA Form 1059, part II: block j—Develops/collaboration



Action required: The academic rater will check the box that best indicates how well the Soldier demonstrated development and col-laboration during the course, as defined below:

Soldiers and leaders create high-performing formal and informal groups by leading, motivating, and influencing individuals and part-ners to work toward common goals effectively. They are effective team members, understand team dynamics, and take appropriate action to foster trust, cohesion, communication, cooperation, effectiveness, and dependability within the team. Leaders build teams, seek multiple perspectives, alternative viewpoints, and manage team conflict. Reference: TP 525 – 8 – 2 and para 4 – 3





DA Form 1059, part II: block k—Achieves/lifelong learner



Action required: The academic rater will check the box that best indicates how well the Soldier demonstrated achievement and life-long learning during the course, as defined below:

Soldiers and leaders continually assess themselves, identify what they need to learn and use skills that help them to effectively ac-quire and update knowledge, skills, and attitudes. Soldiers and leaders value and integrate all forms of learning (formal, informal) on a daily basis to seek improvement of themselves and their organizations continuously.



Soldiers and leaders access, evaluate, and use information from a variety of sources and leverage technology (hardware and soft-



ware) to improve their effectiveness and that of their teams while executing the Army’s missions. Digital literacy skills are developed



at initial entry and increase progressively at each career level.



Reference: TP 525 – 8 – 2 and paragraph 4 – 3





DA Form 1059, part II: block l-Academic rater comments



Action required: The academic rater has up to eight lines of narrative comments to describe the capabilities or limitations of the student, including significant achievements or deficiencies.



a. Comments should capture if the student—



Displayed exceptional potential or demonstrated any exceptional capabilities, aptitudes, or limitations that should be consid-ered in future selection opportunities or assignments.

Lacked ability or motivation.



Demonstrated moral or character deficiencies.



Failed to respond to recommendations for improving academic or personal affairs.



Was released from student status through no fault of their own (for example, medical or compassionate reasons) and is rec-ommended for reinstatement in the course.



Was released from student status based on an approved retirement or resignation.



Was required to appear before an academic board.



b. If appropriate, comments should also be made if the student has demonstrated the potential to be a Service school instructor. Reference: AR 623 – 3









